
--- PAGE 1 ---
 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
Of 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
ASSEMBLY ENVIRONMENT, NATURAL RESOURCES,  
AND SOLID WASTE COMMITTEE 
 
“The Committees will meet to discuss the issue of plastic pollution. The Committees will jointly receive testimony 
from invited guests on the extent of plastic pollution in the State, its potential and actual effects on human health, and 
methods that may be used to protect against, or to mitigate, the negative effects of plastic pollution on human health 
and the environment” 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 4 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
April 22, 2024 
10:00 a.m. 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice Chair 
 
Assemblyman James J. Kennedy, Chair 
Assemblywoman Shavonda E. Sumter, Vice Chair 
Assemblywoman Alixon Collazos-Gill 
Assemblywoman Garnet R. Hall 
Assemblywoman Andrea Katz 
Assemblyman Michael Inganamort 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Eric Hansen 
Adaline B. Kaser 
 
 
 
Celia Smits 
 
 
 
Greg Harris 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
 
Senate Majority  
 
 
Senate Republican 
Committee Aides 
 
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aide 
 
Elizabeth Theodore 
 
 
 
Natalie Ghaul  
Assembly Majority 
 
 
 
Assembly Republican 
Committee Aide  
 
 
 
Committee Aide 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

--- PAGE 3 ---

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
Gary Sondermeyer 
Vice President of Operations 
Bayshore Family of Companies, 
Representing 
Association of New Jersey Recyclers 
4 
 
Phoebe Stapleton, Ph.D. 
Associate Professor 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology 
Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy 
Rutgers University, and 
Resident Scientist 
Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences Institute 
Rutgers University 
5 
 
 
Judith Enck 
President 
Beyond Plastics 
32 
 
Shanna H. Swan, Ph.D. 
Professor 
Environmental Medicine and Public Health 
Icahn School of Medicine 
Mount Sinai, and 
Senior Scientist 
Environmental Health Sciences 
52 
 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Phoebe Stapleton, Ph.D. 
1x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Gary Sondermeyer 
10x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Judith Enck 
15x 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony, and 
Additional materials 
submitted by 
Danielle Fortunato 
Regional Director, State Government Affairs 
Plastics Industry Association 
24x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
George Braddon 
Vice President of Government Affairs 
Tekni-Plex 
30x 
 
mej: 1-62 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
1 
 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  Welcome everyone to the 
two most interesting committees in the Legislature -- Assembly Solid Waste 
and Senate Energy and Environment. 
 
 
Before we get started, let me introduce my members. 
 
 
Senator Greenstein was just here -- are you here, Senator 
Greenstein? 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  (indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, she’s getting coffee.  That’s--  That’s 
definitely a permitted absence. 
 
 
And, Senator McKeon is out of state, I believe, traveling.  And, 
then, the two members from the minority party said they would look today. 
 
 
Chairman Kennedy, how about I turn it over to you and you can 
introduce your members. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN JAMES J. KENNEDY (Chair):  OK. 
 
 
Well, it’s a pleasure to be here, I can tell you that. 
 
 
And, I’ll let my members introduce themselves, because I’m not 
sure which ones are my members anymore.  (laughter) 
 
 
I think I only have one. 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED 
SPEAKER: 
 
No, 
you 
actually 
have 
(indiscernible) 
 
 
Oh, OK. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SHAVONDA E. SUMTER (Vice 
Chair):  Assemblywoman Shavonda Sumter, Vice Chair of the Committee. 
 
 
Always good to be here with our Senate counterparts. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN COLLAZOS-GILL:  Assemblywoman 
Collazos-Gill.  I am in the 27th Legislative District. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
2 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN HALL:  Good morning. 
 
 
Assemblywoman Garnet Hall; 28th District. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN KATZ:  Assemblywoman Andrea Katz, 
the 8th Legislative District. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  Good morning. 
 
 
Assemblyman Mike Inganamort, the 24th Legislative District. 
 
 
Thank you, Chairs. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, the point of today’s hearing is to bring 
New Jersey citizens up to date on the growing threat to the health of our 
citizens as well as the environment. 
 
 
When people think about plastics, they think about the ocean of 
-- almost a continent -- of plastics in the Pacific Ocean.  They’re not really 
thinking so much about human health. 
 
 
And, what we’ve been finding out over the years, if we took any 
of the Assembly people to the hospital here in Trenton and we had a blood 
test done on you, guess what’s going to be in your blood?  And, Star-Ledger 
recently did articles about brain surgery, where the brain surgeon is finding 
plastic particles in our brains.  Rutgers just completed a study saying plastic 
particles are in our bottled water.  And, I thought we were buying the bottled 
water because it had some exceptional level of purity. 
 
 
Anyway, we’re going to hear about all that today.  And, my 
partner in the Assembly, Assemblyman Kennedy, has indicated this is a very 
important topic to him and the Assembly as well. 
 
 
Anything you’d like to say, Jim? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  No, I don’t really have anything 
to add to that; that’s fine. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
 
3 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, so-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Let’s get going. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We have one pre-meeting order of 
importance, and that is the presentation of the Joint Legislative Resolution 
by all of us to Gary Sondermeyer.  Gary is the good-looking guy with the 
almost perfect haircut. 
 
 
Gary has been a major leader in New Jersey on environmental 
issues.  And, one of the reasons for that is that he spent many decades with 
the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, and was a major 
leader in the Department.  And, when he retired from the DEP, he then 
joined the largest recycling -- one of the major recycling entities in New Jersey, 
Bayshore, who are also very, very pro-environment in everything that they 
do. 
 
 
With Chairman Kennedy’s indulgence, I am just going to take a 
couple of excerpts out of the Joint Resolution. 
 
 
Whereas, the Senate, General Assembly, and the State of New 
Jersey are pleased to salute Gary Sondermeyer, highly esteemed member of 
his community, on the felicitous occasion of his retirement from an illustrious 
career in the environmental sector that has spanned more than 40 years -- a 
whole bunch about his birth and growing up and all that.  But, also, he was 
the Assistant Commissioner in the DEP’s permitting programs; he was the 
DEP’s lead for Homeland Security; and he was the Director of Solid Waste 
and the Recycling Programs.  Thirty-year tenure with the DEP.  Real, serious 
public service. 
 
 
Whereas, widely admired for his tireless work ethic; his 
unwavering professionalism; and his thorough command of State processes 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
 
4 
and procedures regarding sustainability, waste reduction, recycling, and more; 
this consummate public servant has lent his considerable expertise as the 
Chair of Sustainable New Jersey and its Waste Management Taskforce; as 
Vice Chair of the New Jersey Plastics Advisory Council; and as an active 
member of several prominent boards and commissions. 
 
 
And, he has uplifted and inspired the next generation of 
environmental trailblazers through his efforts to create a sustainable New 
Jersey Schools Program, and through his mentorship of countless students 
and young professionals. 
 
 
You’ve done a great job for all of us, and the resolution goes on 
to say the Senate and the Legislature -- the Assembly -- recognize all those 
efforts, and Assemblyman Kennedy and I have a very nice framed resolution 
to present to him. 
 
 
Should we do that right now? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Sure. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Gary, come on up, get the resolution and a 
handshake and a cheer. 
 
 
(audience applause) 
 
 
Somebody should get a picture. 
 
 
Gary, come on in between the two of us. 
G A R Y   S O N D E R M E Y E R:  Thank you, sir, this is absolutely 
amazing. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, it’s true. 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  Thank you, sir. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’m wondering where the time goes. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
 
5 
 
 
So, it’s official:  Gary Sondermeyer is hereby recognized for his 
great work on behalf of New Jersey’s environment. 
 
 
And, somebody should get a picture. 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  I’m stunned. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, it’s Chairman Kennedy and my 
intention to bring forward witnesses who can update the State of New Jersey 
on our current plastic situation. 
 
 
We have four witnesses who we want to put up.  The first one is 
Shanna Swan, but she asked if she could go last. 
 
 
So, next in the batting order is Dr. Phoebe Stapleton, Associate 
Professor at Rutgers University, the Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy.  By 
way of her background, she of course has a Ph.D.; she is currently an 
Associate Professor at the Rutgers University Ernest Mario School of 
Pharmacy.  Her lab research focuses on identifying how particles inhaled 
during pregnancy may affect an expectant mother, developing fetus, and 
health of the next generation.  She was recently involved in a landmark study 
that found a strikingly large number of nanoplastics -- which are smaller than 
microplastics -- in bottled water. 
 
 
Dr. Stapleton, you are already at the fore.  You don’t have to 
swear.  You don’t have to have--  This is not sworn testimony, but we really 
are very respectful of what you’re doing and being here today. 
 
 
So, with Chairman Kennedy’s OK, please take it away.  Tell us 
what we’re looking at. 
P H O E B E   S T A P L E T O N, Ph.D.:  Thank you, Senator Smith, and 
your office, for inviting me to speak this morning. 
 
 
And, thank you, Chairman Kennedy, for this opportunity. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
 
6 
 
 
And, thank the members of both the committees of the Senate 
Environment and Energy Committee, and the Assembly Environment and 
Natural Resources and Solid Waste Committee, for your time and attention 
this morning. 
 
 
So, I have been asked to speak today regarding our work in 
micro- and nanoplastics, and the impacts of plastic pollution and human 
health. 
 
 
So, first, I would like to begin this session with a definition of 
micro- and nanoplastics. 
 
 
Microplastics are a small piece of plastic, less than 5 millimeters 
of a single dimension.  These particles, or fragments, may be of any type of 
plastic, and may be seen with the naked eye.  These are often described as 
the size of or smaller than a sesame seed or a grain of sand.  And, in the 
handout I provided earlier, you can see these on Figure 1 in the back of the 
handout.  Now, in fact, we’ve all been exposed to microplastics this morning, 
in the form of our toothbrush bristles. 
 
 
Nanoplastics have two definitions, depending on -- depending on 
their source.  In environmental studies, nanoplastics are defined as particles 
that are less than 1,000 nanometers, or one micron in size.  This is beneath 
the level of detection with the naked eye.  Furthermore, nanoparticles -- or 
nanoplastics -- in a laboratory setting are defined as particles less than 100 
nanometers in a single dimension.  Now, this is an important nuance, as the 
particles that are less than 100 nanometers have specific and unique 
characteristics and properties at this size, including the capability to cross 
biological barriers. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
 
7 
 
 
And, the question is, “Where are they coming from?”  So, the 
majority of microplastics are released from larger products.  These may 
include plastics from environmental sources, including tire wear; incineration 
or landfill; and plastic waste.  The primary wearing of bulk products to 
microplastics is through mechanical wearing and UV and thermal stresses.  
These weaken and fracture the products.  Nanoplastics are produced from 
the breakdown of microsized plastics.  Plastics are initially produced through 
a series of chemical reactions.  This unites a single monomer to a multi-chain 
polymer. 
 
 
Now, it’s because of these chemical reactions these cannot easily 
be broken back down to their monomer form.  And, therefore, any breakdown 
or degradation of both products not only produces smaller micro-sized 
plastics, but, furthermore, nano-sized plastics.  Which means they’re not 
truly gone, and return back to their -- excuse me -- return back to their 
monomer form. 
 
 
Now, microplastics have been found, as Senator Smith alluded 
to, on all continents and in all landscapes.  They’ve been found in urban air, 
glacier water, and remote locations.  These are not only concerns of “other 
places,” but, here in New Jersey, scientists at Rutgers University have 
identified microplastics within the Raritan and the Passaic rivers, and the 
locations of where they’ve been identified can be found in Figure 2.  Scientists 
have identified stormwater as a primary contributor to those found in the 
Raritan and Hudson estuaries. 
 
 
Of equal concern, microplastics have also been measured in 
indoor air.  These measures can often be more than 100 times greater than 
the measures in outdoor air. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
 
8 
 
 
Microplastics have also been identified in food and beverage 
sources.  These are not limited to highly processed foods as one may assume, 
but they can be identified within the source products as well.  This includes 
not only the well-identified ocean-based products, including the oysters and 
fish on the coast of New Jersey, but also includes the pollens to make honey, 
farmlands for agriculture, and water for irrigation as well.  These products 
include tap water; bottled water; beer; wine; sea salt; honey; rice; a variety of 
different produce products, including apples and carrots; and a variety of 
protein sources as well, both meat-based and vegetable-based. 
 
 
Nanoplastics or plastic particles are at least 1,000 times smaller 
than a microplastic particle.  As microplastics have been identified in 
environmental and domestic settings, it is likely that nanoparticles persist in 
these settings as well.  However, because of their small size, nanoplastics are 
exceedingly difficult to identify, visualize, and quantify.  Only very few 
studies have measured nanoparticles within the environment or consumable 
products. 
 
 
Recently, our collaborative group with Columbia University 
identified hundreds of thousands of nanoplastic particles within three brands 
of commercially available bottled water using a specialized microscope.  It is 
notable that many of these nanoplastics were not derived from the packaging 
of this bottled water, nor the cap, but were identified as sources that were 
upstream before the water even reached into the bottle -- likely from filtration 
sources or from the source water itself. 
 
 
Prior to our work, the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology have found the use of common disposable consumer products -- 
including tea bags and hot container cups -- found that these uses of these 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
 
9 
products could release trillions of nanoplastic particles into that single-use 
product during that single use of the product.  And, the temperature to which 
they are used could vary this concentration greatly. 
 
 
Given this, it is clear that humans are exposed to micro- and 
nanoplastics through dermal, or skin; inhalation, or lung; and ingestion, or 
gut routes.  Of greater concern, micro- and nanoplastics do not stay at or 
within the site of exposure.  To date, plastic particles have been identified in 
the human lung; human liver; human kidney; urine; feces; heart; placenta; 
blood; and breast milk.  Trends with human tissues have identified an 
increase in this particle deposition as well. 
 
 
Recently, placental samples that were saved in the state of 
Hawaii and acquired over the last 15 years were evaluated for microplastic 
contamination.  You can find this figure as Figure 3 in the handout.  These 
studies identify that in 2006, only 60% of the samples contained 
microplastics -- only 60% of the samples.  That rose to 90% in 2013, and 
100% of the samples that were analyzed from pregnancies in 2021. 
 
 
In animal models, we and others have recapitulated these 
findings.  Not only have micro- and nanoplastics been identified throughout 
the organs of rodent models of exposure, but, concerningly, micro- and 
nanoplastic particles have been identified within the brain, kidney, lung, and 
liver after exposure via drinking water.  My laboratory has identified 
nanoplastic particles within the placenta and fetal tissues.  These include the 
lung, heart, kidney, liver, and brain of rat samples within 24 hours after 
exposure through either ingestion or pulmonary routes. 
 
 
Further, our preliminary studies indicate that these particles 
persist and can be identified in the offspring for a minimum of six months -- 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
 
10 
a minimum of six months because we haven’t analyzed the samples past that 
time point.  Therefore, this bio-accumulation presents a significant concern 
for the next generation. 
 
 
To date, few studies have identified a link between micro and 
nanoplastic exposure, or deposition directly to human health outcomes.  And, 
this is the linchpin that we need in our studies.  Recently, two studies have 
identified a positive correlation or association with microplastic particles and 
human health outcomes.  These centralize around the state of inflammation 
within the system. 
 
 
The first had identified that individuals who have significant 
amounts of microplastics within their fecal matter was associated with an 
increased severity of inflammatory bowel disease in these patients. 
 
 
Second and most recently was a study that came out of the New 
England Journal of Medicine in March of 2024.  The deposition of micro- and 
nanoplastics within the carotid plaque of cardiovascular-disease patients was 
correlated with increased inflammation within the site in the coronary artery 
and, furthermore, increased risk of cardiovascular episodes within these 
patients.  Studies are currently ongoing to identify the doubt -- the dose, 
excuse me -- the route of exposure; the type of plastics found within these 
samples; and the cellular interactions that may lead to the greatest toxicities. 
 
 
I will leave you with a number of closing points.  First, according 
to the United Nations Environment Program, 9.2 billion tons of plastic was 
made between 1950 and 2017.  In 2022, it was estimated that 400 million 
tons of plastics are produced per year.  These production rates are estimated 
to continue to increase exponentially, leading to the production of 590 
million tons per year by 2050.  That’s a 30% increase between 2025 and 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
 
11 
2050.  These products will inevitably be discarded, break down, and continue 
to collect within the environment and within human tissues as micro- and 
nanoplastic particles. 
 
 
Sample collections or filtrations have often included netting with 
pores approximately 333 microns in size.  This allows for the passage of all 
nano-sized particles.  Thus, the studies underrepresent the number of micro- 
and nanoplastic particles within the environment and within the original 
samples. 
 
 
Plastic has the capability to absorb and release additionally 
carried chemicals.  These then can be highlighted, as the plastic material may 
be a vector for additional toxicants.  These chemicals may be added during 
the production of plastic -- these are identified as plasticizing chemicals -- 
which have been identified as endocrine-disrupting compounds, including 
BPA and phthalates and PFOAs. They may also collect other toxicants due 
to their interaction during the product life cycle.  This may be carbon-based 
products, metallics, or other organics during incineration or energy recovery 
attempts. 
 
 
Overall, micro- and nanoplastics are ubiquitous and pervasive.  
These products and particles have been found everywhere scientists have 
looked.  If there’s a location, product, or tissue that has not yet been 
identified, it is likely that this product or tissue has not yet been examined.  
We know that these particles are entering our environment and entering our 
bodies.  We do not yet understand how, if, or when they may be eliminated 
from our bodies.  Therefore, bio-accumulation of micro- and nanoplastics 
over one’s lifetime, including that of fetal development, is of great concern. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
 
12 
 
 
Federal and State support is paramount to unravel the human 
health concerns of micro- and nanoplastic particle exposure. 
 
 
I thank you each for your time and attention this morning. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That was very shocking news. 
 
 
That--  What was the figure you used for plastics production?  
The huge figure? 
 
 
DR. STAPLETON:  The huge figure of current time? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I remember the words “billions of tons.” 
 
 
DR. STAPLETON:  Yes, from 1950 to 2017 -- 9.2 billion tons 
of plastics have been produced during that time period. 
 
 
However, in 2022, 400 million tons of plastics were to be 
produced in that year. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
 
And, I’m probably going to say this for Gary Sondermeyer, but 
my understanding of the rate of recycling in Western countries -- we’re not 
talking about Asia, Africa, wherever -- the Western countries is 9%. 
 
 
So, take all those billions and millions of tons -- 90, over 90% of 
it is in the environment and working its way down to microplastics and 
nanoplastics.  And, it’s not just us, it’s fish, it’s everything. 
 
 
But, the good doctor is open for questions.  Any questions? 
 
 
Yes, ma’am. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN KATZ:  So, when you’re talking about 
the-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You might want to hit your mic. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN KATZ:  Sorry.  I forget that my voice isn’t 
quite that loud. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 
 
13 
 
 
When you were talking about the microplastics in the air, would 
air-filtration systems like those of the schools and public facilities that were 
upgraded during COVID, would they filter out those particles within the air? 
 
 
DR. STAPLETON:  They would filter out a portion of the micro-
sized plastics.  Unfortunately, even the HEPA-sized filters have a struggle 
filtering out those nano-sized plastic particles, just because of the size and 
diameter of that range. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN KATZ:  Thank you. 
 
 
DR. STAPLETON:  One other point -- I’m sorry -- additionally, 
many times those filters are often made out of plastic materials themselves.  
So, with the wear of those filters, there’s a concern to add to those filtrations 
as well. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you so much for your participation 
today. 
 
 
Chairman Kennedy. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  OK, next we have Gary 
Sondermeyer, Vice President of Operations at Bayshore Family. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  There is a request to move the microphone 
as close to your mouth as possible so everybody can hear. 
G A R Y   S O N D E R M E Y E R:  Let me turn this on. 
 
 
Is that right?  You hear me OK? 
 
 
Terrific. 
 
 
Well, good morning, Chairman Smith, Chairman Kennedy, 
esteemed members of the Joint Committees.  Happy Earth Day. 
 
 
It is certainly an honor to be here. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
 
14 
 
 
Gary Sondermeyer, Vice President of Operations for Bayshore 
Recycling in Woodbridge Township.  
 
 
And, today, I have the honor or representing the Association of 
New Jersey Recyclers to speak about how recycling helps to mitigate the 
impacts and reduce the amount of virgin petrochemical used in plastic 
manufacturing. 
 
 
Plastics recycling in New Jersey is highly effective -- highly 
effective.  Through the Recycling Enhancement Act as well as DEP 
regulations, we have among the most detailed databases on recycling at the 
State level, county level, and municipal level, with information -- tonnage 
information calculated every single year.  I don’t know of any other state that 
does that. 
 
 
From that database, our most recent data year tells us we 
recovered 113,000 tons of plastic containers and 14,000 tons of plastic scrap, 
for a total of 127,000 tons of plastics that take away from the need for virgin 
material manufacturing.  So, highly, highly effective. 
 
 
We achieved an overall 75% container recycling rate in New 
Jersey -- that’s all containers, glass, aluminum, plastics -- and a 57% container 
recycling rate.  And, this trend in plastics recycling is very consistent.  I looked 
at the data from DEP over the past five years and we averaged 133,000 tons 
of plastics recovered per year during that time. 
 
 
From a climate perspective, according to U.S. EPA -- I’ll throw 
out a metric from EPA -- approximately 1.67 metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalents are avoided for every ton of municipal solid waste recycled.  And, 
from a plastics standpoint, for every pound of recycled PET or Number 1 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
 
15 
plastic flake used in lieu of virgin petrochemical (indiscernible) greenhouse-
gas emissions are reduced by 71%, which is a very impressive statistic. 
 
 
As general background, which you know very well through our 
Legislature, we’re the first state in the country to adopt mandatory recycling 
37 years ago back in 1987.  And, one of the amazing things in New Jersey is 
almost every single town -- 564 towns and 9.2 million people -- have access 
to curbside collection.  It’s really important, because recycling is about 
convenience for people, and getting everyone to participate in that.  Our 21 
counties all require the recycling of Number 1 and Number 2 plastics -- it’s 
mandated -- and many -- and, we’re approaching most -- also require the 
recycling of Number 5 polypropylene plastic as well. 
 
 
And, where does this material go?  New Jersey, over time, has 
built an infrastructure of some 23 -- they’re called “intermediate processing 
facilities,” the acronym of art that is commonly used is a MRF.  We have 23 
MRFs; Bayshore is a MRF.  What a MRF simply does is takes back apart 
what you mix together in your kitchen or your garage and then sends that 
material, separated, as individual commodities out to markets. 
 
 
There’s been a lot of rhetorical information in the media that I 
really want to address that recycling isn’t real; that material simply is 
collected and goes in the garbage.  And, I’m sure you hear this from your 
constituents.  It is utter nonsense and economically absurd.  And, I want to 
give you an example. 
 
 
I work for Bayshore.  We take curbside material from about 60 
New Jersey towns -- aggregate population of 1.2 million people, about 15% 
of the state’s population.  Again, we take all that stuff back apart and we send 
it out to markets.  The average cost of disposal at disposal facilities, landfills, 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 
 
16 
and incinerators, is $90 a ton.  If we took that stuff and were disingenuous 
and we sent it for disposal, it would cost Bayshore $125,000 a week -- or, 
$500,000 a month; $6 million a year.  That’s a quick pathway to bankruptcy.  
Absolutely does not happen -- doesn’t happen at all. 
 
 
Plastics, in fact, are the highest revenue for MRFs next to 
aluminum.  Aluminum is Number 1, but after aluminum it’s plastics.  They 
are highly valuable to recyclers.  The average revenue for plastic containers 
exceeds $300 per ton, and that metric comes from one of our public MRFs.  
So, here’s the choice:  If it weren’t recycling material, we’d be paying $90 a 
ton versus getting paid $300 a ton.  Assertions that recycling isn’t real are 
absurd.  And, it’s a big country, maybe it’s different in other states.  That’s 
not what we do in the State of New Jersey.  This material is getting recycled. 
 
 
I would like to turn quickly to waste reduction.  Waste reduction, 
as we know, is the highest element within the hierarchy of sustainable-
materials management.  And, this is where we have to do more in particular.  
EPA has an amazing line graph on their sustainable-materials management 
website, and it shows just about 60 years of data which shows that solid waste 
generation -- material generation -- has continued to increase.  Every one of 
those nearly 60 years.  This is where we need to make a difference, and there’s 
some really creative waste-reduction strategies nationally and in-state, but, 
unfortunately, they’re not yet at scale.  And, this is where we need to go.  To 
supplement, again, reducing the amount of material that we need to make 
from virgin petrochemical feed stocks. 
 
 
So, one of the other honors that I have is serving as Vice Chair 
the last two years of the Governor’s Plastics Advisory Council.  And, we really 
took this issue of waste reduction up this year and studied it.  And, what we 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
 
17 
did -- which was really interesting -- one of my colleagues, Nandini Checko 
from NJEC, New Jersey Environmental Commissions, and I convened 34 
national and State experts in the area of waste reduction to see what specific 
things we could do.  We focused on things like -- a lot of it is very 
fundamental -- disposable-free dining.  We have nearly 20,000 restaurants in 
the State of New Jersey.  We should have no single-use plastics that are used.  
That should be a common goal that we strive for.  We should have zero-waste 
events, in particular looking at government-sponsored events where we don’t 
need to generate any waste.  We also looked at opportunities for plastic waste 
reduction in schools -- 3,200 schools in New Jersey; we shouldn’t be 
generating plastics.  We shouldn’t be buying plastics, if possible, from these 
schools.  Also, opportunities in businesses and in government facilities. 
 
 
So, our second-year report of the Plastics Advisory Council 
should be finished in a month or two.  And, one of the things that was very 
obvious to us, and this will probably be one of our recommendations, is to 
form an ongoing waste-reduction steering committee as part of the Plastics 
Advisory Council, to really focus and drill in on things we can do to push the 
envelope on waste reduction.  We also will hopefully be identifying some 
short- and long-term strategies that this steering committee can consider 
working -- but not out of DEP, so the committee would be making 
recommendations to DEP.  And, some of them certainly will lend themselves, 
I believe, to coming forward to your committees to talk about potential 
legislation to push the envelope on waste reduction. 
 
 
So, in closing, I do want to focus on the need to do better and 
recycling -- flipping back to recycling.  We certainly recognize we need to do 
better.  Your committees have done some absolutely amazing things -- the 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
 
 
18 
recycled content legislation, that we hit some important milestones, I think 
it was January 18 when the initial targets came in for the recycled content 
numbers.  When we testified, Senator Smith, I think I testified (indiscernible) 
saying that this is the most important piece of recycling legislation since the 
mandatory law was first enacted.  Very, very, important, so we need to track 
and follow that. 
 
 
Another thing that your committees did is pass a law to create a 
Recycling Market Development Council.  That body did its work; it produced 
a report in April of 2022.  There were 15 very specific recommendations.  I’m 
certainly not going to go through the recommendations, but I did want to 
just touch upon some of the areas where we need to improve. 
 
 
First one is statewide recycling education.  Recycling is still 
confusing.  It’s too confusing.  We need to make it simpler.  And, we need to 
do that through statewide education.  
 
 
Second thing we’re contemplating and looked at through ANJR 
and some stakeholder discussions is creating one uniform list of what’s 
required for recycling in New Jersey.  The allegation is we have 21 different 
lists.  That’s a little bit overplayed.  The lists are very similar.  But, they are 
a little different, and it does lead to confusion, so we’re really looking at trying 
to develop a platform for having one uniform list.  Three states have done 
this, and they’re really good models that we’ve been looking at -- in particular, 
Colorado, Oregon, and Connecticut. 
 
 
Another area that we’ve been focusing on in stakeholder 
discussion is truth in labeling.  And, truth in labeling kind of goes hand in 
hand with a uniform list.  You know, it’s all about the chasing hours, whether 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
 
 
19 
they make sense and we should not have them anymore.  So, we’re trying to 
look at those two public policy issues at the same time together. 
 
 
Financial-assistance programs -- we used to have really aggressive 
-- progressive, I’m sorry -- financial-assistance programs through the Recycling 
Enhancement Act, that sunset, to build additional recycling infrastructure 
and to improve it and to make it better.  That’s another area that I think we 
need to focus on.  And, really, the game changer for changing the whole 
platform of recycling and waste reduction in the State will be extended 
producer responsibility. 
 
 
ANJR has come to the table, Senator Smith, at each of your 
hearings, to testify in support of EPR.  I really think this is an absolutely 
critical element for us to focus on -- in particular, the needs-assessment 
component, to understand our full system before we go forward with EPR 
legislation. 
 
 
So, in closing, there’s really no question that recycling is a core 
element of fighting plastic pollution and displacing significant amounts of our 
virgin petrochemical feedstock.  And, we look forward to continuing to work 
with the Legislature; with the DEP sister nonprofit organizations; to push the 
envelope to improve our system and reduce plastics. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Any questions, I can probably answer. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We have a lot of questions. 
 
 
First of all, we’re looking forward to the Plastics Council’s 
recommendations.  They have a very distinguished crew, including the Chair, 
Cindy Zipf, on that crew.  I think the product of your deliberations are going 
to be very much sought after by the Legislature. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
 
 
20 
 
 
Now, that being said, in some states where they have plastic 
bottle deposit legislation, the rates of recycling plastic are at least five times 
more than the State of New Jersey.  And, I’m talking about the 9% figure 
versus over 60%.  Should we be thinking about plastic bottle deposit 
legislation? 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  The position of ANJR is absolutely not. 
 
 
We think that a bottle bill would basically dismantle the system 
that we currently have in New Jersey.  We simply built a different system, 
Mr. Chairman, and I’m sure you know this.  Back when our mandatory law 
went in place, seven out of the 10 bottle-bill states already have bottle-bill 
legislation.  It is far more limited.  It deals with, essentially, bottles and cans.  
Bottles and cans are 13% of what we recycle. 
 
 
The determination in ’87 by the Legislature is we should do 
something far more comprehensive; we should focus on total recycling.  And, 
that’s what we do.  Two-thirds of all recycling is fiber.  And, what I mean by 
fiber -- it’s cardboard; paper; junk mail; all that stuff.  That’s really important 
for climate as well.  Very important, you know, we need our trees -- carbon 
sequestration, all the things we talk about.  
 
 
We have put in place a very strong platform for total recycling.  
A bottle bill would take us backward, and there are incredibly negative 
potential repercussions of a bottle bill.  But the things that have run the State 
-- that the Legislature put in place economically:  Our municipal tonnage 
grants program, where $22 million a year is generated and it goes, largely, to 
support municipal recycling coordinators.  They’re our little engines that 
could, that drive recycling in the state. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
 
 
21 
 
 
As you know really well, right before mandatory recycling, we 
passed the Clean Communities Law in 1986 -- incredibly comprehensive -- to 
address all litter, not just bottles and cans.  Who pays for that?  The Clean 
Communities Law was New Jersey’s first extended producer-responsibility 
law 38 years ago.  And, I think sometimes we forget that.  It’s paid for by the 
litter-producing industries.  And, they’re not going to pay twice.  They’re not 
going to pay for Clean Communities and pay for a bottle bill, because it’s 
expensive for manufacturers when you have a bottle bill in place. 
 
 
So, Clean Communities would be in jeopardy; municipal tonnage 
grants would be in jeopardy.  As I testify -- and, this is really important -- we 
built a recycling infrastructure of these 23 MRFs in New Jersey.  The highest-
value material is aluminum.  Aluminum can be as much as 30% of the revenue 
stream for MRFs.  If you put aluminum and plastics together, it’s as high as 
40%.  Imagine running any business and you have taken away from you 40% 
of your revenue.  What you’re going to do is put in jeopardy the entire 
recycling infrastructure of the State of those 23 MRFs.  I don’t know how 
Bayshore would stay in operation; I don’t really think we could with that 
kind of an impact. 
 
 
And, the last thing I’ll say--  I’m sorry I’m rambling on, sir, but I 
think it’s important-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You’re trying to answer the question. 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  Yes-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, that may be something we’re going to 
consider, so we’d like to hear what you have to say. 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  The last one, which is very, very 
important is the word “convenience.” 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
 
 
22 
 
 
And, I think we have to remember this.  As I said, it’s important 
to remember the chronology here.  Most of the bottle-bill states adopted their 
legislation in the ’70s -- that was their first initiative in recycling.  We did not 
do that.  We chose -- our Legislature chose -- to do something a lot more 
comprehensive -- again, mandatory recycling.  So, each one of us -- each one 
of your constituents -- has nearly 40 years of curbside collection.  I mean, 
what do you have to do to recycle?  Basically, you’ve got to clean your stuff 
out in the kitchen, put it in the garage, and wheel it out to the curb. 
 
 
That doesn’t happen with a bottle bill.  You’ve got to put your 
stuff in the car, and you’ve got to drive to a supermarket to put it in one 
container at a time into a reverse vending machine, or drop it off at what’s 
called a redemption center.  Incredible change to what the norm has been in 
New Jersey.  
 
 
And, I’ll tell you -- I’ll speak, if it’s OK, a little bit from a personal 
standpoint.  My family has been honored to have a home in New York State.  
And, whenever we go there and we go to recycle and go to the reverse vending 
machine, they are most commonly either full or broken.  And, if they’re not, 
you wait in line.  So, where it would take, normally, at your house to wheel 
out that cart, what, a minute or two?  For the convenience of recycling.  The 
line, sometimes, are hours long to be able to recycle.  And, our greatest 
concern with ANJR is people just aren’t going to do it.  So, instead of it 
enhancing recycling, you’re going to go way, way backward. 
 
 
And, the last thing I want to say, Senator, we’ve looked at 
recycling numbers and numbers are very difficult because there’s never been 
a national standard.  The states all count differently, so it’s really hard to 
compare, but the numbers we’ve looked at show that New Jersey’s recycling 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
 
 
23 
rate for containers is better than seven out of the 10 of the bottle-bill states.  
So, we don’t really even understand why we would have to have that 
discussion, because we think it only -- for all the reasons I said -- is going to 
take us backward. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Are there questions from Committee 
members? 
 
 
Senator Greenstein. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN (Vice Chair):  Thanks very much 
for the testimony. 
 
 
I wanted to ask, since today’s topic is plastics, and I know you 
did talk a bit about it.  But, generally speaking, are there any types of plastic 
that can’t be recycled, and, how does that work in terms of your process? 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  Yes, absolutely, Senator. 
 
 
The polyvinyl chloride -- PVC, like the pipes, stuff -- there’s no 
market for that.  It’s junk; it’s waste.  We happen to know of markets where 
we actually accept one to seven plastics, and we don’t really get any PVC; it’s 
really not there.  But, we will take the other plastics. 
 
 
We individually--  We actually market six different blends of 
plastics.  There’s clear PET -- clear polyethylene terephthalate; there’s color; 
then clear high-density polyethylene; there’s different films.  And, we can 
market a blend of three to seven plastics to a further processor that mines out 
the polypropylene.  The value -- beyond ones and twos -- the real value is 
Number 5’s polypropylene, and they’ll mine that out for polypropylene 
recycling uses in products. 
 
 
And, then the balance they use for lower-level products like 
composite things.  We’ve heard of Trex lumber and other different products 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
 
 
24 
that are made with composites of plastics.  So, for the most part, ones, twos, 
and fives are the strong markets and the others are not.  They truly are not. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  In terms of the issue of deciding 
whether recycling is successful or not, there’s no question that you’re -- that 
Bayshore is the number of communities you serve. 
 
 
What about the rest of the industry? And, if it isn’t that 
successful, what do you think it would take to make it more successful? 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  Yes, that’s a great question. 
 
 
And, you’re right.  I mean, in your question, it sort of draws a 
question of these--  I mentioned 23 MRFs -- they’re not all at the same of 
technology of Bayshore.  Our system is 100% fully automated, and it’s like 
crazy, we have optical scanners that are so precise they can tell a difference 
between a Number 1 and a Number 2 plastic instantaneously and blow a 
different stream of air at one versus the other and they go in different places.  
That’s the highest end of technology. 
 
 
There probably are more like a dozen of our level of facilities that 
are out there that would be just like Bayshore -- very, very successful.  There 
are less automated systems out there, and that’s where the comment I made 
about EPR comes in, and financial-assistance programs.  Bringing up -- we 
should build off of the very successful platform we have, right to your 
question, and make it better, and make it better, and get all the facilities that 
are taking substantial amounts of curbside material up to the same level of 
automation and recovery as Bayshore.  That’s really what it was argued our 
objective should be, because they’re not all at the same level. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
 
 
25 
 
 
Are any of them disposing of a (indiscernible) -- no, they’re just 
not.  I gave an example because I wanted to sort of put some numbers out 
there of how absurd that is; they’re not disposing of this material. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thanks; thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Assemblywoman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN HALL:  Thank you. 
 
 
And, thank you for all the information. 
 
 
I hail from the 35th District City of Paterson, and a lot of the 
confusion is around what to recycle. 
 
 
And, you touched on that, so what do we need to do to create 
that list, if you will, that people can keep in their homes?  
 
 
And, also, is there a business partnership in that regard?  
Because, it seems that the residents have the curbside pickup, but I think for 
businesses, it’s scheduled private contracting pickup, without the same onus 
of separating plastics from your general garbage. 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  Yes. 
 
 
And, first, I grew up on the corner of Main and Grand, on top of 
Irving’s Pharmacy in downtown Paterson. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN HALL:  Oh, there we go.  (indiscernible) 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  And, yes, it is very confusing. 
 
 
Each of the 21 counties, there’s a piece of the Recycling 
Enhancement Act.  It’s 10% that goes to education, and the counties all have 
very clear websites on what you can and can’t recycle. 
 
 
But, to your good point, as an older person -- at this point, as a 
senior citizen -- we rely too much on people going to websites.  We need to 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
 
 
26 
do more outreach like we used to do to get to community folks who have a 
lot of other things to do. 
 
 
And, I like what you just said.  Middlesex County, Mr. 
Chairman, has a magnet that you put on the refrigerator, and says, “This is 
what I can recycle, this is what I can’t recycle.” 
 
 
The other thing -- and, this is a real tribute to DEP -- there is an 
app.  It is called “Recycle Coach.”  I hope every single member has Recycle 
Coach; it’s free to download it.  DEP bought this app for all 564 towns in the 
21 counties, and it is an amazing tool.  To your point, it’s not for everyone.  
If you’re an older person who’s not comfortable with stuff like apps, then it’s 
like the old-fashioned calendar, but the app is amazing.  It tells you 
everything about when your solid-waste collection is; household hazardous 
waste day; consumer electronics day; what I can recycle; what I can’t recycle.  
They just added a module on it for litter abatement, on cleanup from Clean 
Communities.  I am actually working with them on doing a food component 
of it to try to get real-time recovery of food from the 20,000 restaurants in 
the state to food pantries on a nightly basis. 
 
 
A really effective tool.  But, to your point, we have to do better.  
We really do have to do better.  And, we think that this uniform list might 
make it simpler to take away at least some element of that confusion.  Because 
if you don’t know what to recycle, we have two things that happen:  One is 
wishful recycling, and all that stuff that comes to us that’s junk -- I mean, at 
Bayshore we could open a sports store.  We get bats, balls -- I don’t know, 
bowling balls; everybody thinks they can recycle bowling balls.  The other 
one are garden hoses -- we get so many garden hoses.  Pool liners; bags of 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
 
 
27 
needles and syringes from at-home diabetics, because they think one part is 
metal, one part is plastic, it must be recyclable.  We have to do better. 
 
 
But, I think the uniform list -- hopefully, before the end of this 
year, we’ll have recommendations to potentially come forward to the 
committees about the uniform list.  Because, the way it works now, it was 
pretty brilliant.  I think in 1987, the law said every county plan has to 
embrace (indiscernible) and it was a ban on leaf disposal.  But that was a 
floor. 
 
 
So, the average number of materials required for recycling in 
county plants is 16.  So, it’s very comprehensive.  So, the question becomes, 
do we need to change the law or not change the law?  Connecticut actually 
did their uniform list voluntarily, and that’s something we’re looking at 
because it might be a more expedient way to move forward.  
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN HALL:  Thank you for your information 
today. 
 
 
I come from and represent Maplewood.  Maplewood, New 
Jersey, has been a leader in recycling and environmental issues, so we have 
gone through the papers on the refrigerator, and the arguments between 
Number 1 and Number 7 and Number 5 and whether it’s recyclable. 
 
 
So, I would suggest that we need to start talking to the youth in 
the schools as a requirement for graduation, or -- they’re the ones who are 
using the product. 
 
 
You mentioned convenience.  That’s why they use the plastic 
bottles -- for convenience.  And, parents like us want to use that as a 
convenience, too. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
 
 
28 
 
 
So, I think that we have to look at the youth in the schools to 
promote the change, not so much-- 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  I could not agree with you more.  You 
are so right. 
 
 
And, another hat I get to wear -- I am Chairman of the Board of 
the Sustainable New Jersey Program.  We’re up to 466 towns, 1,185 schools 
actively involved.  And, a big part -- I actually manage what’s called the Waste 
Management Action Area, it’s all recycling and waste-reduction actions; we 
have 16 of them to do exactly what you said. 
 
 
And, look at what New Jersey did.  Look what our Legislature 
did.  First state in the country to require climate education K-12 schools.  
Absolutely awesome.  And, what that gives us is a platform to do exactly what 
you said, and to make recycling a part of the curriculum -- to make 
composting a part of curriculum.  Every single school in New Jersey should 
have a school garden; they should harvest that material through the kids; they 
should serve it in the cafeteria; they should have separation of food in the 
cafeteria and go right to a composter on site and then back into the school 
garden.  That’s called sustainability. 
 
 
So, you are spot on.  We really need to focus on our schools, 
because they’re our future.  That’s the next generation. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN HALL:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any other questions? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN KATZ:  I have one. 
 
 
Thank you for all the information. 

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
 
 
29 
 
 
How much wishful recycling do you get a year?  Like, just a 
ballpark of how much is coming in that people are trying to recycle, but just 
can’t? 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  Yes, and that’s -- that translates in 
recycling nomenclature to residue -- “How much residue do you get?” 
 
 
And, on average, it’s about 10%.  It’s about 10% of what comes 
in.  And, that’s -- you know, the variety of materials, it’s fascinating to us on 
what people pick.  Like, I mentioned some of the examples.  It’s kind of crazy. 
 
 
But, I really think people are just well-intended.  And, like, when 
you’re sitting there, you have that moment.  It’s in my hand -- do I drop it in 
the garbage container or the recycling container?  And, you want to put it in 
the recycling container.  So, most of the counties have campaigns, and it kind 
of hurts for me to say this, but the pitch is, “When it doubt, throw it out,” 
and don’t put it in the recycling stream, because then it goes through this 
whole system and winds up onto the landfill anyway. 
 
 
So, what I would say to your big question is every county has an 
excellent website on what you can and can’t recycle.  So, the best advice is to 
look at what the county plan says and follow that, and we’ll really reduce the 
amount of wishful recycling. 
 
 
But, what we feel is more important--  Because we have 21 
pockets of education, which each county, doing an education platform, we 
also need to bring back something we have in the past -- statewide education.  
So, we have a uniformity of messaging, which we haven’t had in many years.  
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sir. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
Thank you, Mr. Sondermeyer. 

--- PAGE 35 ---
 
 
 
30 
 
 
Congratulations on your award, obviously well deserved. 
 
 
I was getting my kids out the door this morning for school, and 
we were talking about the three R’s:  Reduce, reuse, recycle.  And, it strikes 
me that we’ve spent a lot of time and emphasis as a state on the reduce 
component; the various material bans, straws and bags and so forth.  And, I 
really appreciate your perspective and expertise when it comes to recycling, 
which is critically important.  I think that’s really our way out of this. 
 
 
I want to ask about the reuse part of that triangle, if you will, 
because I think it sometimes gets overlooked.  Can you speak to what amount 
of the recycling material that you’re collecting is ultimately reused?  Either 
by the consumer -- which we can’t speak to, because that’s before the point 
at which you collect it -- or by those who are -- those entities to whom you’re 
selling this material, so that we don’t have to create an additional 400 million 
pounds next year. 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  Great question. 
 
 
And, so, just to say this -- recycling is an extraordinarily complex 
business and industry.  It is -- the floor -- I’ve always explained this, when I 
teach, it’s the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.  It is commodities 
exchange. 
 
 
So, I can say in the aggregate, 90% -- round numbers -- of what 
recyclers get go to markets.  People are paying us for that material, which 
means they’re going to use it in some form.  Exactly how they do that, I can’t 
answer.  It’s so complicated.  We have people who do nothing all day who 
look for outlets to be able to market our materials.  But, about 90% are being 
used, and that’s what’s important. 

--- PAGE 36 ---
 
 
 
31 
 
 
That goes to the, I think, misinformation that this stuff goes in 
the garbage.  It doesn’t go in the garbage; it’s going to markets, and it’s 
making new--  And, it depends on the commodity.  Aluminum cans are going 
back to new aluminum cans; Number 1 and Number 2 plastics are going back 
to make those products.  Others, it’s ancillary.  Third -- other side kind of 
products, like I mentioned Trex is an example with plastics.  So, it depends 
on the commodity. 
 
 
Cardboard -- huge.  Paper, we continually capitalize to bring in 
more equipment to get better and better paper separation, because if you get 
sort of too much color material in paper, that can only go to make toilet 
paper.  If you have a higher grade of paper, that can go to paper towels.  If 
you have really good paper, it can go back to making new ledger; new writing 
paper.  So, you understand what it means. 
 
 
I think the metric is 90% is going back to the market. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  Got it. 
 
 
And, 90% sounds good.  Is 90% good? Are there things we can 
be doing to enhance that efficiency?  Do we have consumers and residents 
recycling? 
 
 
MR. SONDERMEYER:  Yes, and that’s a great question. 
 
 
That’s why the committees created -- passed a law to create that 
Recycling Market Development Council, and the report lays out 15 
recommendations.  I mentioned a bunch of them in my testimony today.  
We’ve got to do them all. 
 
 
It’s really--  It’s a combination of education; financial-assistance 
programs to upgrade the infrastructure to be mechanized like Bayshore is, at 
all the core recycling facilities to make it simpler for folks so they know what 

--- PAGE 37 ---
 
 
 
32 
they can and they can’t recycle.  And, these other really important public 
policy platforms like extended producer responsibility; recycled content; 
truth in labeling--  So, unfortunately, it’s very complicated.  What I would 
say from a statewide standpoint, New Jersey recycles over 50% of the stuff 
that it generates.  Like I said, generation, sadly, continues to increase.  We 
continue to buy and make more waste every year.  We need to change that.  
But, we’re recycling over 50% of that stuff.  The national recycling metric is 
32%. 
 
 
So, we’re doing much better than the vast majority of states in the 
country.  I think we’re in the top echelon of recycling in the country.  But, as 
I said, we constantly strive as our association to do better.  And, we can do 
better, and we need to do better. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, if there are no other questions, thank 
you, Gary, once again, for your service to the State. 
 
 
Our third witness of four is Judith Enck.  Judith Enck is the 
founder of Beyond Plastics.  She’s a Senior Fellow and Visiting Faculty 
Member at Benington College, Vermont; and she is the former EPA Region 
2 Regional Administrator. 
 
 
Ms. Enck. 
J U D I T H   E N C K:  Good morning. 
 
 
Happy Earth Day. 
 
 
I have such great respect for Gary Sondermeyer, and congrats on 
passing the resolution for his impressive public service career. 
 
 
But, while we’re talking about recycling, I am going to go out of 
order with my testimony, which mostly deals with health. 

--- PAGE 38 ---
 
 
 
33 
 
 
I want you all to understand that for 40 years, the plastics 
industry has said, “Don’t worry about the massive amount of plastics we are 
producing.  We can just recycle it.”  That turns out not to be true.  Less than 
10% of plastics are actually recycled.  It’s not just my report from Beyond 
Plastics -- these are numbers from Department of Energy; from EPA.  And, I 
want to explain why, because numbers get numbing.  I travel with plastic 
packaging. 
 
 
And, I want you to understand why plastic recycling doesn’t 
work.  Let’s keep recycling everything else.  I started my town’s recycling 
program as a volunteer in Upstate New York.  Keep recycling paper, metal, 
glass, cardboard; compost yard waste and food waste if you’ve got the space.  
But, we have to be honest that plastic recycling has been an abysmal failure.  
 
 
The reason is because if you have an aluminum can, you can 
recycle it into a new aluminum can.  If you have newsprint, you can recycle 
it into another paper product or cardboard.  But plastics have 16,000 
different chemicals, many different colors, and many different plastic 
polymers.  These three items cannot be recycled together, and that’s why the 
plastic recycling rate is so low. 
 
 
The plastics industry has launched a pretty significant PR 
campaign saying “Recycling is real.”  I would just an asterisk -- “Recycling is 
real, except for plastics.”  And, plastics is Plan B for the fossil fuel industry.  
Thankfully, we are shifting to more renewable energy and electrification of 
vehicles.  The two big markets for fossil fuel companies is power generation 
at power plants, and petroleum that they sell at the gas pump.  Little mom-
and-pop companies like Shell and Exxon Mobil recognize that they’re losing 

--- PAGE 39 ---
 
 
 
34 
their market for electricity generation and transportation, so they are shifting 
to plastic production. 
 
 
None of us asked for more plastic; nothing tastes good in plastics; 
but we have a glut of plastic because the fossil fuel industry wants to sell more 
fossil fuel -- specifically fracked gas. 
 
 
In 1950, 2 million tons of plastic were produced a year.  Now, 
we’re producing 450 million tons of plastic a year.  Congress is not expected 
to take significant action, and there’s only so much we can do as individuals.  
So, we need the State of New Jersey to act. 
 
 
When I served as EPA Regional Administrator, I zipped around 
the region.  I visited sewage-treatment plants, Superfund sites, recycling 
centers.  I was living the dream.  I really loved visiting sewage-treatment 
plants, I learned a lot.  But, I met with the gentleman who ran material 
recovery facility in the Hudson Valley, and they were collecting one through 
seven plastic when I knew there were only markets for Number 1 and Number 
2 plastic.  And, for the soda bottles, most of the plastic gets recycled if you’re 
in a bottle-bill state.  So, I very gently said to this man, “So, I’m surprised 
you’re telling everyone to put one through seven in the recycling bin.  Where 
are your markets?  Where is it going?”  His response was, “A waste broker 
takes it off my hands, and I’m not sure where it goes.” 
 
 
Where a lot of it probably went -- other than Number 1 and 
Number 2 -- is export to countries like Malaysia, Vietnam, Philippines, 
Turkey, and, now, Africa.  Because plastics are fundamentally not recyclable; 
plastics are a human health threat.  You heard from the distinguished doctor 
from Rutgers.  We’ve got a real problem with plastics and health.  They may 

--- PAGE 40 ---
 
 
 
35 
leach directly from the packaging into food and beverages; chemicals 
hitchhike on microplastics or nanoplastics, exposing us to chemicals. 
 
 
And, while it’s been mentioned before, I want to direct you to 
Page 2 of my testimony.  We really need to understand this.  Scientific journal 
articles are coming out at breakneck speed.  Microplastics and nanoplastics 
have been found in human lungs; in human blood; liver; fatty tissues.  Plastics 
have been found in our kidneys; and in breast milk.  Microplastics have been 
found in the human placenta -- both the maternal side and the fetal side.  
And, remember, the baby is just hanging out in the placenta for eight or nine 
months, so that’s a short period of time. 
 
 
Now, the plastics industry will say, “Well, there’s no evidence 
that this causes harm.”  I am willing to go out on a limb and say microplastics 
in our bodies are not helping us.  It’s not like they have nutritional value.  
 
 
And, we are very interested in a report that was published in the 
distinguished New England Journal of Medicine just about a month ago.  They 
did a study with over 40 medical researchers, and they identified 
microplastics in samples of plaque taken from arteries in the heart; and, 
unfortunately, they found a four-fold increased risk of cardiac incident.  
Specifically, they looked at patients who had microplastics in their heart and 
arteries, and those who did not.  Patients who had microplastics and 
nanoplastics in their heart and arteries increased risk of heart attack, stroke, 
and premature death.  The plaque specimen studied included polyvinyl 
chloride -- PVC -- and polyethylene; both are used in plastic packaging. 
 
 
From a health perspective, this is also an environmental-justice 
issue.  I work closely with allies in Louisiana, Texas, Appalachia.  You’ve 
heard of Cancer Alley in Louisiana.  It kind of hurts my heart to even say 

--- PAGE 41 ---
 
 
 
36 
there’s a region in the United States today referred to as “Cancer Alley.”  
That’s where there’s a concentration of petrochemical facilities and plastic 
production facilities.  I am speaking to a group in Louisiana tomorrow night.  
They are getting seriously sick from the pollution from plastic-production 
facilities.  It’s called Cancer Alley because of the higher rate of cancer in these 
communities.  So, the production of plastic is a health issue. 
 
 
Because plastic recycling is so abysmally low, that means that a 
lot of plastics wind up at landfills and incinerators.  I am particularly 
concerned about the four garbage incinerators operating in New Jersey, 
specifically Camden, Essex, Gloucester, and Union counties.  When you burn 
plastic, you get a number of air contaminants, including dioxin -- which is the 
most toxic chemical known to science. 
 
 
As Senator Smith mentioned in the opening, plastics are in the 
ocean.  What got me really, really interested in the plastics issue--  So, I 
worked at EPA during the Obama Administration.  It was an honor to be 
appointed by President Obama to serve at the EPA.  And, I actually got most 
of my work done after 5 o’clock, when the endless meetings would wrap up 
and I could actually read things.  And, I read a scientific report that said by 
2030, unless we change public policy -- like at the state level -- for every three 
pounds of fish in the ocean there will be one pound of plastic.  And, that just 
stopped me in my tracks. 
 
 
Further, if we don’t adopt strong policies like strong bottle bills 
and strong packaging-reduction law, by 2050 it’s going to be one-to-one -- for 
every fish in the ocean, there will be one pound of fish to one pound of plastic.  
And, what happens when plastic gets into the ocean is it’s exposed to sunlight, 
so it gets really brittle, and then the wave action will break this bottle into 

--- PAGE 42 ---
 
 
 
37 
hundreds if not thousands of pieces of plastic.  And, it’s eaten by fish; by sea 
birds; by marine life. 
 
 
As a coastal state, New Jersey has a keen interest in the health of 
the ocean.  One estimate places the value of commercial and recreational 
fishing in New Jersey at $8 billion per year.  We are seeing microplastics in 
fish around the world.   
 
 
So, what the plastics industry is mostly saying now -- a lot of 
them will say -- “Yes, you know, we can’t argue with the consistent numbers 
that plastic recycling is under 10%.”  So, now, they’ve launched something 
called “chemical recycling.”  And, that absolutely is not the answer.  Chemical 
recycling is taking high heat and attempting to turn plastics into pyrolysis oil, 
a type of fossil fuel.  Or, a few of the facilities attempt to turn plastic into 
plastic, but they need to use a massive amount of hazardous waste -- 
hazardous materials -- to do that, which becomes hazardous waste.  Most of 
these facilities are cited in low-income communities or communities of color, 
making this another environmental-justice issue. 
 
 
My organization, Beyond Plastics, produced a major report last 
October called, “Why Chemical Recycling Won’t Solve the Plastic Pollution 
Problem,” which we co-published with the international group IPEN.  If I 
haven’t convinced you on the environmental and health problems with 
chemical recycling, I want to tell you that only 1.3% of total plastic generated 
in the United States is handled by chemical recycling facilities.  And, this is 
not new.  They’ve been trying this since the ’80s.  They always say, “Oh, the 
breakthrough is around the corner.”  So, let’s say they double.  Well, that 
gets us to 2.6% of the plastic.  Triple, still under 10%.  So, it is not a solution 
to the plastics problem. 

--- PAGE 43 ---
 
 
 
38 
 
 
Just two weeks ago--  I want to direct you to an important article 
in The New York Times on chemical recycling.  The title in The New York Times 
article is, “There is an Explosion of Plastic Waste,” “Big brands like Procter 
& Gamble and Nestlé say a new generation of plants will help them meet 
environmental goals, but the technology is struggling to deliver.” 
 
 
So, unfortunately, keep recycling your other material, but let’s 
be honest about the failure of plastic recycling.  Let’s be honest that chemical 
recycling is not a solution.  Twenty-five states have adopted laws to promote 
chemical recycling, to classify it as manufacturing.  Why are they doing that?  
So there’s less environmental regulation and access to taxpayer subsidies.  
Because the average plant costs $500 million, and lots of taxpayer dollars are 
spent on that. 
 
 
What is the real solution?  I have two important policy 
recommendations for you, but I want to start with an illustration about what 
this means.  Assemblyman, you mentioned the hierarchy that we are all 
familiar with:  Reduce, reuse, recycle.  Very little is being done with reduction 
and reuse.  We need a strong packaging-reduction law in New Jersey for the 
following reason: 
 
 
I have a wonderful colleague at Beyond Plastics, and she really 
pays attention to what she purchases.  But, she orders from Amazon.  You’re 
familiar with this package, right?  So, she ordered something, and it came in 
this.  And, then it came in this.  And, then it came in this.  And, then, finally, 
another package for her eco highlighters.  So, if you want to reduce packaging, 
you need to adopt a law that requires an actual reduction in plastic packaging.  
Amazon is a very innovative company; they can get stuff to us pretty quickly.  
Who pays for all of this?  We do, as taxpayers. 

--- PAGE 44 ---
 
 
 
39 
 
 
And, there was an important report by John Weber’s group, 
Oceana, that just came out last week that said when Amazon is selling 
products in states and countries that have strong packaging-reduction laws, 
you get your package in this, and not all of this.  Right now, packaging 
companies have no skin in the game, because we, as taxpayers, pay to get rid 
of all of this.  And, it is super expensive. 
 
 
So, packaging-reduction laws--  Here’s how I want you to think 
of it.  At the Federal level, we have the Clean Air Act, and we have fuel-
efficiency standards.  So, cars that you buy today are much more efficient 
than a car you even bought 10 years ago.  When I served at EPA, EPA rolled 
out some new fuel-efficiency standards for cars.  And, I remember--  I was just 
like a little regional administrator.  I wasn’t like Lisa Jackson, making big 
policy in Washington.  I just tried to clean up the environment in two states 
and two territories in the Indian nations.  But, when EPA would announce a 
fuel-efficiency standard regulation change, the regional administrators were 
sent out to meet with stakeholders. 
 
 
So, I had the opportunity to meet with car dealers.  And, I was 
explaining the fuel-efficiency standard update so you and I pay less at the 
pump.  I hate paying for gasoline, so a hybrid electric car, an electric car, gives 
us options.  I remember one gentleman who owned a car dealership said, 
“Judith, it sounds like what you’re trying to do is force the market toward 
electric vehicles.”  And, I said, “Hmm, that’s one way to look at it.  Yes.”  We 
need fuel-efficiency standards for cars, for appliances.  If you buy a 
refrigerator today, it’s much more energy efficient than even if you bought it 
five years ago.  So, what packaging-reduction laws do -- also known as 

--- PAGE 45 ---
 
 
 
40 
extended producer responsibility -- is it’s environmental standards for 
packaging, so that taxpayers don’t have to keep carrying the load. 
 
 
We’ve got to get the details right.  The plastics industry knows 
that laws are coming, and, so, they’re promoting bills that don’t really get the 
job done and that allow for chemical recycling, which would be a mistake. 
 
 
Quickly, I want to make a pitch for a bottle bill -- a refundable 
deposit container law.  One of the best benefits of bottle bills is litter 
reduction.  If you go to a bottle-bill state, you do not see soda and beer and 
water bottles littered in any community.  And, the recycling rate is much 
higher.  I rely on numbers from the Container Recycling Institute, because 
they pay a lot of money purchasing industry market data.  They looked at 
states that have bottle bills versus states that don’t.  So, if you are in a bottle-
bill state, your aluminum can recycling rate is 77% versus 36%.  Glass bottles 
are recycled at 66% as opposed to 22%, and PET plastic bottles, 57% versus 
17%. 
 
 
The only real recycling success story with plastic is beverage 
bottles in bottle-bill states.  And, why?  Because the material is kept separate.  
I go to my supermarket; there are reverse vending machines; and you feed the 
empty bottles and you get a little receipt back.  There’s also innovation.  
There’s a company -- and, I’m not pitching particular companies, but there is 
a company called Clynk -- C-L-Y-N-K -- I hate it when they spell words wrong, 
like Dunkin’ Donuts.  But, with Clynk, you just take -- you take all your 
deposit containers; you put it, unfortunately, in a plastic bag; you drop it 
down the shoot; and there’s a little barcode you get when you sign up.  I used 
it recently; it took me 10 seconds.  I’ve never heard of anyone standing on 
line for hours to return containers. 

--- PAGE 46 ---
 
 
 
41 
 
 
So, my strongest recommendation to you today is we need 
environmental standards for packaging in the form of a strong packaging-
reduction law.  Fifty percent of plastic packaging should be reduced in the 
next 10 years.  And, you can do a glide path -- 10% reduction in the first two 
years; 20% in four years; etc.  Companies can innovate when legislative bodies 
tell them the rules of the road. 
 
 
And, then, second, there’s so much data about the benefits of 
bottle bills across the country, and I would also recommend that a New Jersey 
bottle bill, long awaited, include a provision to promote refillable containers.  
Coca-Cola announced last year that they want 25% of beverage containers in 
refillable containers.  They say they’re going to do it voluntarily; I’m not sure 
I believe that, so let’s put that in statute. 
 
 
Happy to take any questions. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any questions? 
 
 
Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN KATZ:  Thank you. 
 
 
Thank you for your testimony. 
 
 
What other states have those packaging laws?  You referenced a 
few.  Which ones, specifically, are they? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  So, there are extended producer-responsibility laws 
on the books in the last two years in California, Maine, Oregon, and 
Colorado. 
 
 
And, they’re not very strong, because they rely on the myth of 
plastic recycling as opposed to reduction.  California has a reduction 
requirement. 

--- PAGE 47 ---
 
 
 
42 
 
 
I would say, of the four, the weakest is Colorado.  You do not 
want to use that as a model. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What do you think is the strongest? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  California.  But, it has some terrible loopholes.  
Like, there’s a sentence in the California law that says, “Packaging that 
presents unique challenges in complying are exempt from the law.”  That’s 
terrible, because polystyrene will say, “We have unique challenges in 
complying.” 
 
 
I think that’s the sort of sentence that gets added in the middle 
of the night.  So, California, we’ve got to make sure we close loopholes. 
 
 
So, California, the reason they adopted it is because the plastics 
industry wanted to keep an initiative off the ballot.  California voters were 
going to vote on whether or not to ban polystyrene statewide, and there was 
private, behind-closed-doors negotiations; knocked that initiative off the 
ballot and do a weaky PR bill. 
 
 
The other problem with the California law is that it’s really 
murky on chemical recycling.  It is unclear whether chemical recycling can 
count as recycling.  And, here’s the big picture:  We finally have some honesty 
that plastic recycling mostly doesn’t work.  And, remember, collection is not 
recycling.  So, now, the plastics, chemical, and fossil fuel industry is saying, 
“Shift to chemical recycling.”  And, chemical recycling is not going to work; it 
won’t handle most of the plastic waste; and it gives us a whole new generation 
of problems. 
 
 
California says they’re not going to have chemical recycling in 
the state, but what they could do is send plastics out of state to other chemical 
recycling facilities.  And, you don’t want that to count as recycling. 

--- PAGE 48 ---
 
 
 
43 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, on that topic, the--  If plastics recycling 
was defined in New Jersey as plastics to plastic pellets, which could be reused 
to make new plastic materials, that’s not offensive or objectionable, right? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  No. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s the chemical recycling that’s the 
problem. 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  Chemical recycling is the big problem.  And, I think-
-  You know, plastic recycling, it’s just going the way of the dodo bird; it’s 
just collapsing on its own. 
 
 
Where a lot of the plastics that are collected--  For years, it was 
sent to China, and China said, “You’re sending us too much non-recyclables,” 
in the recycling bins, the shipping containers that were sent over.  So, China 
warned the U.S. and the E.U. for eight years, “Stop sending us so much non-
recyclables.”  We kept doing it.  So, China actually closed their door to plastic 
and all recyclables from the U.S. 
 
 
So, what did these plastic waste brokers do?  And, by the way, 
New Jersey exports the second-most amount of plastics in the country besides 
California.  And, that’s a whole different topic, plastic exports, which I urge 
you to look at and watch the PBS Frontline segment called, “Plastic Wars,” 
where they document the devastating health and environmental impacts of 
what happens when this gets sent to Indonesia; to the Philippines; to 
Vietnam. 
 
 
So, we want to make sure that New Jersey stops exporting so 
much plastics to other countries as well. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  One more question from me -- 
(indiscernible) from anybody else who would like to. 

--- PAGE 49 ---
 
 
 
44 
 
 
But -- and, I’m not trying to do Saturday Night Live point-
counterpoint -- but, Gary Sondermeyer said that if there was a bottle bill that 
the recyclers would be in big trouble.  Do you have any response to that? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  I do, and I don’t want the recyclers to be in big 
trouble. 
 
 
But, a lot of this is, “Who pays?”  So, right now, taxpayers are 
paying to collect the recyclables and get it processed at the MRF.  Bottle bills 
are extended producer responsibility.  It means Coke and Pepsi and Coors -- 
they have to take responsibility for all the recyclables.  So, yes, MRFs will get 
less material, which could translate into taxpayer savings, but there’s so much 
potential for composting yard waste and food waste. 
 
 
I mean, I could envision--  If you’ve got municipal waste trucks 
going around neighborhoods, right now they’ve got compartments.  A lot of 
them collect regular trash in one compartment, recyclables in another.  And, 
if the recyclable section is smaller because we’re getting rid of beverage 
containers that are part of bottle bills -- now, don’t get upset with this new 
idea -- but maybe another section could be for yard waste and food waste, 
and bring that for composting.  There is no shortage of opportunities for 
recycling and composting. 
 
 
But, yes, we’re going to have fewer beverage containers going to 
MRFs, and that can translate into taxpayer savings when they re-negotiate 
contracts. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Other questions? 
 
 
Assemblywoman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN COLLAZOS-GILL:  Thank you. 

--- PAGE 50 ---
 
 
 
45 
 
 
So, I completely agree with the need to reduce and 
(indiscernible) in plastics.  I mean, at my house we recycle; we do all of those 
kinds of things.  And, yes, I am constantly trying to find a way to use less 
plastic.  So, I completely agree.  I really do like the idea of just destroying the 
idea of most of the packaging it comes in.  It doesn’t (indiscernible) things 
that I (indiscernible) with. 
 
 
But, on this bottle bill, just so I can understand a little bit more 
about this.  Right now, the way we recycle -- to your point -- we recycle.  We 
have our containers, our blue plastic container; we put our recyclables, plastic, 
and glass; and then we put it on the curb.  This is the way families and 
residential--  This is how it happens right now.  
 
 
With the bottle bill, families would have to go to a specific place, 
is that what we’re saying, to recycle?  To just bring your materials?  
 
 
And, I’m just thinking out loud.  How much complicated would 
that be for your residents?  Because a couple of years ago, we did the plastic 
bag ban, and it worked.  It’s working out really well, in many different ways.  
But, one of the things is that we said, “OK, now we have this additional 
plastic bags that can be made out of plastics,” and we’re not recycling it now, 
although they are making it so you can actually recycle your recyclable bags 
-- you can just bring it to different locations.  And, I don’t think we’re doing 
enough on that end. 
 
 
So, my question is, on the bottle ban, or bottle bill, how do we 
see that working for residents, just your regular consumers? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  Sure, yes; great question. 
 
 
So, you’re super busy.  I’m super busy.  I’m hanging on by my 
fingernails.  I am just going to meeting, to meeting, and every so often I stop 

--- PAGE 51 ---
 
 
 
46 
at a supermarket and I buy food.  And, my husband cooks it and we have a 
good dinner, because he cooks.  But, I am in the supermarket once or twice a 
week, and that’s where I bring my empty containers back.  So, I’m there 
anyway, and then I spend my redeemable money in that supermarket. 
 
 
Now, environmental justice groups have raised a really important 
issue.  There are a lot of food deserts.  There are neighborhoods where you 
don’t have access to supermarkets.  The solution there is the creation of 
redemption centers.  There’s one I want to particularly mention in Brooklyn 
called “Sure We Can.”  They are a nonprofit redemption center.  Low-income 
people go around collecting empty bottles and cans and they get the deposit 
for people who don’t want to go to the supermarket. 
 
 
I am old enough to say I worked on the original bottle bill in New 
York, which passed in 1982.  I was an infant when I worked on it.  And, we 
never envisioned what would happen.  We thought this would be 
supplemental money for Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts -- and they do do bottle 
and can drives.  It’s now a major source of income for people who are 
economically struggling.  There are 11,000 people in New York City who rely 
on that money.  I have met amazing women who put their kids through 
college because they go out and they collect bottles and cans from people who 
just want to keep putting it in their--  And, you can keep putting it in your 
recycling bin. 
 
 
I am very fiscally frugal, so I return my bottles and cans, and it 
is simple because I am at the store anyway, and then these redemption centers 
are a supplement.  Most redemption centers are for-profit; they’re small 
business; they’re creating local jobs.  The nonprofit redemption center model 
is unusual, but it could happen in food deserts in New Jersey. 

--- PAGE 52 ---
 
 
 
47 
 
 
Compared to other issues we’re working on--  I mean, climate 
change is huge; cleaning up federal Superfund sites takes billions of dollars.  
We have to protect wetlands; we have to clean the ocean.  The bottle bill is 
easy compared to the other challenges.  And, we have the benefit of 10, 11 
states that have already done it.  And, it gets better over time. 
 
 
For instance, if New Jersey does a bottle bill, don’t just do beer 
and soda -- do Snapple bottles, because those bottles are the same as other 
bottles.  New York and other -- I think Connecticut just added wine and 
liquor.  And, the amazing thing is the reduction in litter; not having the litter 
is key.  
 
 
At Beyond Plastics, we hear a lot from people who are very 
concerned about--  Do you know the problem with these little liquor bottles 
called “nip” bottles?  And, they are on the side of the road everywhere.  We 
need to put a deposit on them, and then people will pick it up.  Even for a 
nickel, but you should start with a dime deposit.  It’s not regressive, because 
when you return your containers, you get your deposit back. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN KATZ:  I share the concerns here, that 
you want to make this easier for people to recycle.  And, I know that I myself 
am running around like a crazy person all the time.  I could see myself 
forgetting to take things to a grocery store.  You know, my municipality 
doesn’t accept grass clippings, or they don’t pick up grass clippings, and I will 
tell you every weekend I say potty words as I am mowing my lawn and trying 
to deal with my grass clippings.  It’s just easier when I’m able to put things 
at the curb to be able to be dealt with in my busy life. 
 
 
And, I just think a lot of my peers might have that same--  And, 
I want recycling to continue to happen; I don’t want people to say, “Oh, that’s 

--- PAGE 53 ---
 
 
 
48 
going to be too hard, let me put it in the garbage instead.”  I don’t want that, 
you know? 
 
 
But, you did reference the rates of recycling in bottle-bill states 
compared to not bottle-bill states.  But, the gentleman who testified -- I’m so 
sorry, I’m bad with names; in the wonderful tie -- had mentioned that we 
have a 75% container recycling rate in New Jersey. 
 
 
So, how does that sort of measure--  What are our numbers here 
in New Jersey with our low-cost programs that we already have in place? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  That would make New Jersey like no other state in 
the world.  And, those numbers don’t match with the industry numbers that 
we have. 
 
 
And, I am a member of the “running around like a lunatic club,” 
you know, that’s my every day.  But, I want to ask you, when the plastic bag 
ban took effect in New Jersey -- so, maybe the first two times you went to the 
store and you forgot your bags, but now you remember your reusable bags all 
the time, because you leave them in the car, or if--  Right?  Or, if you don’t 
leave them in the car, you get those little collapsable bags you put in your 
purse, the ChicoBags. 
 
 
So, that’s how the bottle bill works.  It just becomes second 
nature.  It’s really not hard. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, sir. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  I am a lunatic running 
around a lot, and I’ll be holding everything in my hands walking out of Shop 
Rite.  So, it’s a double whammy. 

--- PAGE 54 ---
 
 
 
49 
 
 
Just a couple quick questions while we’re still on the bottle bill.  
A lot of great questions on that subject, but I just want to point a really fine 
point out. 
 
 
Do you prefer the bottle bill in place of curbside, in addition to 
curbside?  How do they -- how do they work together?  We heard testimony 
that this (indiscernible) 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  They are perfect together.  So, keep curbside in 
place, do a bottle bill -- which has the enormous benefit of litter prevention -
- and then you have Coke, Pepsi, Coors taking financial responsibility to 
either refill or recycle all of that rather than taxpayers.  And, then, the third 
lane is a strong packaging-reduction bill. 
 
 
But, I would keep the bottle bill separate from packaging because 
bottle bill has a very deep history in the United States, an existing return 
process -- which you don’t have, for instance, for like baby food plastic 
pouches.  They’re going to have a whole other approach on that. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  Thank you. 
 
 
And, I think, just reacting in real time at a very high level, I think 
intuitively you’re right that we could probably reduce litter -- those bottles, 
you know, on the side of the road and whatnot. 
 
 
And, candidly, I’m intrigued by a concept that provides a 
financial incentive to influence human behavior.  I prefer that to a ban of 
certain products, but that’s a conversation for another day. 
 
 
Going in a separate direction if I could.  You have concerns with 
chemical recycling.  What is your preferred method of recycling plastic -- 
without getting too technical.  Is there a rearranging of the particles that you 
support? 

--- PAGE 55 ---
 
 
 
50 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  I support reducing plastics, full stop.  Because we 
have tried plastic recycling for decades, and it just doesn’t work because it’s 
all different colors; 16,000 different chemicals; all different polymers. 
 
 
So, you know, you could say in New Jersey, you can only sell 
Number 1 and Number 2 plastic, which you do have a fighting chance of 
getting recycled. 
 
 
I don’t think that would work.  I think the emphasis has to be 
on reduction, reuse, refill. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  I’m just going to push you 
a little bit if I can. 
 
 
So, I mean, is there a scenario where you think we can be more 
effectively -- strike effectively -- recycling plastic in New Jersey? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  No. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  No; OK. 
 
 
I am going to ask you one last time, and then I’ll move onto 
another question. 
 
 
If we eliminated plastic recycling in New Jersey, would it have 
any impact on the environment? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  I’m not suggesting you eliminate plastic recycling, 
but I am suggesting that you be honest with the public and say it’s really just 
Number 1 and Number 2 plastic that, realistically, gets recycled. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  OK. 
 
 
My last question:  You mentioned the 10% figure on plastic 
recycling.  Is that New Jersey, or broadly? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  It’s a nationwide figure.  It’s actually 5-6% recycling 
nationwide. 

--- PAGE 56 ---
 
 
 
51 
 
 
It’s 5-6% nationwide, and that’s not just my numbers.  That’s 
U.S. Department of Energy.  EPA is very late on its numbers, but it’s under 
10%. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  Nationally. 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  Nationally. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  Do we know the number in 
New Jersey? 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  I do not. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  OK, because that’s the part 
I’m a little bit unclear on coming out of this hearing.  I heard 9%, 10%, 50%, 
and 90% on what amount of New Jersey plastics are recycled.  I don’t know 
the answer-- 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  But, let me--  Let me maybe help figure this out. 
 
 
The word was used, “recovered,” the word was used, “collected.”  
That does not necessarily translate into acted, actually being recycled. 
 
 
And, I really think you want to take a look at exports to other 
countries.  I was surprised in the last year to read that New Jersey is the 
Number 2 exporter of plastic to other countries.  That’s not good, because 
other countries do not have markets and infrastructure to handle it. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN INGANAMORT:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Judith. 
 
 
We’re going to need a lot more of your advice as we go forward. 
 
 
MS. ENCK:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  OK, last, we have Dr. Shanna 
Swan joining us on video. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 57 ---
 
 
 
52 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Would you do her background, too? 
 
S H A N N A   H.   S W A N, Ph.D.:  Hi, can you all see me?  I guess there’s 
a screen somewhere. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Hold on one second. 
 
 
DR. SWAN:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We just want to make sure the audience 
knows of your distinguished background. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Her distinguished background 
includes she’s the Professor of Environmental Medicine and Public Health at 
the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.   
 
 
DR. SWAN:  Thank you. 
 
 
Yes, my department is Environmental Medicine and Public 
Health.  I am an epidemiologist, and I am a reproductive and environmental 
epidemiologist.  My work examines the impacts of environmental exposure 
on health -- particularly reproductive health and neurodevelopment. 
 
 
Why am I talking to you today?  Well, I am committed to use 
my science and the science of my colleagues to protect public health and the 
environment.  Hopefully, this will help that. (laughter) 
 
 
So, I appreciate the opportunity to talk to you today about 
chemicals in plastic and their impacts on human health.  We’ve heard a great 
deal about recycling.  This has been a fabulous discussion about recycling; 
we’ve heard about microplastics; but, we haven’t heard much about health.  
And, so, as an epidemiologist, that’s what I’m going to focus on. 
 
 
And, it’s timely.  I want to point out that this hearing is taking 
place on today:  This is Earth Day, Earth Day 2024, and it’s also the time 
that governments and NGOs from around the world are gathering in Ottawa 

--- PAGE 58 ---
 
 
 
53 
to -- and, the meeting starts tomorrow -- to continue negotiating the terms of 
the United Nations Global Plastic Treaty.  I invite you to follow those 
discussions, because they’re going to be really informative about the problems 
we’re discussing today. 
 
 
OK, so, plastic -- which includes a wide range of synthetic or 
semi-synthetic polymer-based materials, as you’ve heard, has been produced 
at an exponentially increasing rate.  The number of tons in the billions that 
has been produced since it was introduced in the 1950s is perhaps arguable.  
You’ll hear many numbers, but perhaps 10 billion tons. 
 
 
And, more than 15,000 chemicals are used to manufacture these 
materials.  Twenty-five percent of these chemicals have been classified as 
“chemicals of concern.”  That’s a general term, but it refers to chemicals that 
have been associated with potential acute or chronic human health effects.  
So, that’s 25% of 15,000 chemicals.  That’s a lot of chemicals that are of 
concern.  But, this number is actually an underestimate, because for at least 
40% of chemicals in plastic, we don’t know about their health risks.  So, we 
have this huge number of chemicals whose risk is unknown, and another huge 
number, which is of concern.  And, these things are affecting human health. 
 
 
I am going to give you two examples of how they can affect 
human health.  But, before I do that, I just want to say there is a wide range 
of harms that have been demonstrated for chemicals in plastic chemicals of 
concern.  And, these include cancer; neurodevelopment; obesity; reproductive 
failure; immune dysfunction; every system in the body can be affected by 
chemicals that have the ability to affect our body’s hormones. 
 
 
That’s maybe new to some of you -- I hope not.  But let’s--  That’s 
what I’m going to talk about next.  So, some chemicals in plastic act through 

--- PAGE 59 ---
 
 
 
54 
the same pathways as our body’s natural hormones.  Everybody--  Every man 
knows about his testosterone, or knows about his testosterone level.  Women 
are interested in the hormones that affect their menstrual cycle.  So, we’re 
very familiar with these steroid hormones that affect sexual and reproductive 
function. 
 
 
And, the chemicals that affect the body’s hormones have been 
called endocrine-disrupting chemicals, or EDCs.  And, this is a class of 
chemicals that is regulated separately from carcinogens, for example, in some 
places, such as the state of California. 
 
 
So, let me give you two examples. Bisphenols -- I think most 
people have heard of Bisphenol, BPA, that’s an example of a Bisphenol -- this 
is a plasticizer.  It’s put in plastic for the purpose of making that plastic hard.  
And, it is estrogenic, like your body’s own estrogen, or estrogenic pills that 
you take for medical reasons -- similar pathway.  On the other hand, we have 
the chemicals that kind of -- I call these the evil twins -- that make plastic soft 
and flexible.  And, those are the phthalates.  And, so, every time you see a 
squishy bottle, think rubber duckies, you’re looking at something that 
contains a lot of phthalates. 
 
 
OK, so, these are examples of endocrine-disrupting chemicals.  
More than 25 years of research has shown that these endocrine-disrupting 
chemicals can and do damage our health in multiple ways by interfering with 
our body’s own hormones.  So, they mess up the signaling that these 
hormones are trying to conduct; they interfere with the transport of these 
hormones; and so on and so forth.  And, one of the most clear pictures is that 
they can sit in the receptors that are there to lodge the estrogens and the 
progesterones, and actually displace them so that you’re not getting the real 

--- PAGE 60 ---
 
 
 
55 
thing, you’re getting this mimic.  And, they enter our bodies silently, all the 
time, without our knowledge, and -- of course -- without our permission.  
California’s Prop 65 has listed over 900 chemicals as known or potential 
endocrine disruptors. 
 
 
So, today, I have a little time, I’m just going to talk about what 
happens when a pregnant woman is exposed to the chemical class phthalates, 
those chemicals that make plastic soft and flexible -- in those bottles that 
we’ve been discussing, for example -- and the impact of that exposure on male 
reproductive health.  This is an area I’ve worked in for over 20 years. 
 
 
So, let’s go back a quarter of a century.  The National Toxicology 
Program, in 2000, showed that when you fed these phthalates to pregnant 
rats, it caused changes in the reproductive system of their male pups when 
they were born.  Measurable, demonstrable, clear, significant changes in the 
genitals of the male offspring.  I hope everybody in this room is cringing a 
little bit about this, because it’s not comfortable. 
 
 
They called this -- they named this -- the Phthalate Syndrome.  
This is unusual to have a syndrome named after a chemical class.  I don’t 
know of any other.  And, at the same time that this information was coming 
out, the Centers for Disease Control was testing representative samples of 
people in the United States and seeing what was in their bodies.  Now, I can’t 
ask you how much phthalate is in your body.  You have no idea -- I have no 
idea.  How do we know this?  We look in the urine for phthalates, or in blood 
for fat-soluble chemicals.  Phthalates are water-soluble.  They actually leave 
the body very quickly -- in four hours.  So, if we take the urine from pregnant 
women, we can see what they are carrying, and then what their fetus is 
exposed to, because these cross the placental barrier. 

--- PAGE 61 ---
 
 
 
56 
 
 
OK, so, I looked at that literature on the Phthalate Syndrome 
and I thought, “Well, that’s rats and we’re exposed, so, natural question, is 
there a Phthalate Syndrome in humans?”  Now, if you want to think about 
how hard it is to answer this, just bear with me for a second and just do this 
little experiment.  You want to study this; you think it’s plausible; you think 
it’s important.  What do you have to do?  Well, first of all, you’ve got to get 
a lot of money.  And, the only way I know to do that is you go to NIH.  To 
do that, you have to write a grant.  That process is a multi-year process, but 
I did that, I got the money, and then I have to conduct the study. 
 
 
What do I do?  Well, I have to what?  I have to have urine from 
pregnant women, because I know that will show me how much phthalates are 
in their body, and then I have to see what it does to their male offspring.  So, 
I have to have them bring in their babies.  That makes sense, right?  And, 
then, I have to examine the babies; what do I look for?  Well, I have to look 
for changes in the male offspring that are analogous to what the NTP saw in 
their pups, male pups, right?  So, we had to design an experiment, design an 
exam, to actually measure the right thing-- So, we really looked for the human 
Phthalate Syndrome, if it existed. 
 
 
So, I did that.  I did that, I did that in a large study for which I 
got a lot of NIH money -- about $5 million, it cost -- and I happened to have 
urine stored from pregnant women, which was extremely lucky, and so I 
looked.  And, I found the Phthalate Syndrome in humans.  When this was 
published in 2005, it was really big news, and it did influence legislation -- 
for example, the Consumer Protection Act of 2008, after I testified about 
this. 

--- PAGE 62 ---
 
 
 
57 
 
 
And, then, I had to repeat the whole thing, because in science 
you have to replicate your work.  And, so, I did that.  Another $5 million, 
another five years, and we found it again.  And, at that point, we had this 
finding in rodents and in humans and replicated in humans, and I could 
confidently say that when the pregnant woman is exposed to phthalates, her 
male offspring may exhibit the Phthalate Syndrome. 
 
 
Now, does this matter?  Who cares if the genitals are a little 
different?  It turns out it does matter.  And, here we were at sort of an impasse, 
because these were babies.  And, they don’t produce sperm, and they don’t 
try to get pregnant for a long time.  And, I didn’t want to wait 20 years, 25 
years, to see whether that exposure or that Phthalate Syndrome made a 
difference for their function. 
 
 
So, what I did was I went to college students, and I said, “Would 
you let us measure your genitals and give us a semen sample?”  And, what we 
found was that the aberrations that we had seen in the Phthalate Syndrome 
were directly related to sperm count.  So, the more changes we saw in these 
measurements -- I’ll just mention the most important one, don’t cringe -- it’s 
called the anogenital distance or AGD, known on the street as the taint or 
the gooch.  This measurement -- which is a measure of the size of the genitals 
-- if that’s small, then the male has, on average, a lower sperm count. 
 
 
And, then, a colleague did a similar thing in California and 
showed that men who had never had children had a shorter measure than 
men who had had children. 
 
 
So, together, this body of research, that took I would say over 10 
years -- 10 to 15 years -- established that when the mother is exposed to 

--- PAGE 63 ---
 
 
 
58 
phthalates, the fetus is exposed, the fetus is affected, the male -- particularly 
for this chemical class -- and, finally, that he will have trouble having a baby. 
 
 
Now, we looked at sperm count in another study worldwide, and 
I published a study in 2017 which showed that worldwide sperm counts -- 
you may have heard this -- sperm counts are declining.  They’re declining 
pretty rapidly, and they’ve decreased -- since we started studying in about 
1970 -- 50%, on average, worldwide.  Fifty percent.  And, that’s about a rate 
of 1% per year.  Now, you think 1% per year is not very much -- nothing, 
right?  But, think about 50 years, 50%.  If I told you that over the past 50 
years, I, too, have dropped 1% per year, you would be really concerned.  I 
think we should be really concerned about this decline in sperm count. 
 
 
And, by the way, we updated this study recently.  In 2023, we 
published that the rate of decline has not leveled off.  It has significantly 
increased.  So, the decline is now faster. 
 
 
What about fertility?  Fertility is a hard thing to measure.  One 
measure it called “total fertility rate,” it’s the number of pregnancies that a 
woman will have in her lifetime.  So, the total fertility rate has been tracked 
by the World Bank, of all things.  If you look up, “World Bank fertility data,” 
you will see that fertility has declined worldwide at exactly the same rate as 
sperm count:  1% per year.  And, this is everywhere.  One exception being 
Israel.  Why?  Because the total fertility rate includes assisted reproduction 
and in Israel citizens are paid -- can recover the costs of two -- of IVF for two 
live births.  And, so, the number of births in Israel has not declined because 
of the use of assisted reproduction. 
 
 
I don’t think this is a healthy situation for our species.  But, when 
I talk about fertility, skeptics will say, “Well, these are voluntary declines.  

--- PAGE 64 ---
 
 
 
59 
People are delaying childbearing because they want fewer children, or because 
they now have contraception available,” and so on and so forth.  That’s 
correct.  And, skeptics will say, “Well, people are smoking more; they’re more 
stressed” or, they’re more obese and all these are interfering -- that is correct.  
 
 
However, this is not the case for non-human species.  And, if we 
look at non-human species worldwide, the number of endangered species has 
more than doubled between 2007 and 2022.  And, if you do the numbers, 
this is an increase of somewhat more than the same 1% per year.  So, it’s not 
just humans, it’s all species.  And, these are species that cannot use 
contraception or delay their childbearing voluntarily.  These are species that 
are exposed to the same chemicals -- chemicals in plastic and other endocrine-
disrupting chemicals -- that is driving down everyone’s fertility. 
 
 
I cannot stress how important this is, and I think you get the 
picture that this is--  In East Asia, the rate of fertility, the fertility rate is now, 
in some countries like South Korea, down to 0.8 children for a woman or 
couple.  To replace the population, we need 2.1 children per couple.  So, 
we’re not doing that, and the economic and social implications of this are 
huge.  And, there are direct links between these declines and chemicals in 
plastic. 
 
 
OK, let me turn to something else, if I can find these notes.   
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
Sorry. 
 
 
OK, so, I am going to give you one more example, and it’s very 
different; it’s breast cancer. 
 
 
So, there was a recent study -- a quite brilliant, small study -- 
which showed that EDCs increased the risk of breast cancer.  And, what this 

--- PAGE 65 ---
 
 
 
60 
study did was take volunteers in California and ask them to reduce their use 
of personal-care products that contain EDCs -- phthalates and others.  They 
gave them substitute products.  And they did this for 28 days -- one month 
only -- and what they found was a reduced risk of progression to breast cancer 
using genetic markers that predict who will go on to get breast cancer.  These 
changes indicated a reduced risk, and showed that healthy breast cells are 
programmed to be pre-cancerous by EDC chemicals that have been assumed 
to be safe and have been put into market.  
 
 
So, this is a very small study. It’s a pioneering study, but it’s very 
important because it clearly makes the link between--  These are makeup, 
personal-care products, and progression to breast cancer.  It’s--  These things 
come in everywhere.  They come in our makeup; they come in our personal-
care products; they come in our food; they come in our cleaning products; 
they come in our laundry detergents.  They are everywhere and by every 
means that they get into our body, they are disrupting our hormones and 
increasing our health risks.  I’ve only given you two examples. 
 
 
So, I want to close by saying that it is unacceptable to assume 
that a chemical is safe before it is put into commerce.  That is the status quo 
in the United States.  That is not the status quo in the E.U., which has 
legislation that requires a chemical to be proven safe before it’s put into 
commerce. 
 
 
The studies I described each cost millions of dollars, and took a 
very long time.  And, they only could examine a limited number of health 
outcomes and a limited number of exposures.  Think about the job of testing 
every chemical for all of these outcomes.  It’s not possible. 

--- PAGE 66 ---
 
 
 
61 
 
 
So, we cannot wait for human health risks to be established 
before we remove these (indiscernible) from our daily lives. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Dr. Swan. 
 
 
Questions for Dr. Swan?  (no response) 
 
 
OK, thank you very much. 
 
 
And, I think you’re tuning in from California? 
 
 
DR. SWAN:  Yes, I am. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for how early you got up this 
morning.   
 
 
DR. SWAN:  (laughter) 
 
 
It was a bit of a (indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We appreciate the information. 
 
 
Dr. Swan is our last witness. 
 
 
Assemblyman Kennedy and I are planning to close the hearing, 
but, special event -- within five minutes we’re going to put on the TV the We 
are All Plastic People Now movie -- it’s an Emmy-winning documentary, 
featured at the 2024 Sante Fe Film Festival.  The documentary focuses on 
the pervasiveness of plastics in our environment and in our bodies and the 
detriments that plastics have on public health.   
 
 
Is there anything anybody wants to say?  (no response) 
 
 
So, we have a whole bunch of bills that are being constructed, 
and Chairman Kennedy said he would like to take responsibility for the 
distribution of bills, if you’re interested -- especially after today’s program, 
but we’re doing the same thing on this side. 

--- PAGE 67 ---
 
 
 
62 
 
 
And, I hope this is the first of many meetings of the Joint 
Environment Committees in April of every year.  And, usually, in August, we 
do a joint hearing at the shore.  Followed by a party.  So, hopefully we can 
all get together again. 
 
 
So, Assemblyman Kennedy, thank you so much for all your help 
today.  Is there anything you want to finish up with? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  I really have nothing, you pretty 
much summed it all up. 
 
 
So, I guess we could just adjourn. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Adjourned. 
 
 
Movie, five minutes. 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
