 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
“The Committee will take testimony from invited speakers on the ways in which the 
insurance industry is adapting to account for increased risks associated with current and 
anticipated climate change impacts” 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 6 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
March 7, 2024 
1:00 p.m. 
 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice Chair 
Senator John F. McKeon 
Senator Latham Tiver 
 
 
 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
 
Eric Hansen 
 
 
 
 
Celia Smits 
 
 
 
John Gorman 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
 
Senate Majority  
 
 
Senate Republican 
Committee Aide  
 
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
Christine O’Brien 
President 
Insurance Council of New Jersey (ICJ) 
2 
 
Dave Snyder, J.D. 
Vice President 
Assistant General Council 
American Property Casualty Insurance Association (APCIA) 
8 
 
Andrew Zwicker 
Senator 
New Jersey State Senate 
District 16 
18 
 
Franklin Leo Kury 
Former Senator 
Pennsylvania State Senate 
27th District 
20 
 
Steven C. Englebright 
Former Assemblyman 
New York Assembly 
4th District 
26 
 
Alex R. Daniel, Esq. 
In-house Council 
New Jersey Civil Justice Institute (NJCJI) 
30 
 
Maya K. van Rossum, Esq. 
Founder 
Green Amendments for the Generations 
31 
 
Janine G. Bauer, Esq. 
Partner 
Szaferman Lakind 
60 
 
Raymond Cantor, Esq. 
Vice President 
Government Affairs 
New Jersey Business & Industry Association (NJBIA) 
66 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Anthony Russo 
President 
Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey (NJCIA) 
70 
 
Michael Egenton 
Executive Vice President, Government Relations 
New Jersey Chamber of Commerce 
71 
 
Ed Waters 
Senior Director of Government Affairs 
Chemistry Council of New Jersey (CCNJ) 
73 
 
Svanfridur Mura 
High School Co-Chair 
New Jersey Student Sustainability Coalition 
76 
 
Eric DeGesero 
Executive Vice President 
Fuel Merchants Association of New Jersey 
78 
 
Anjuli Ramos-Busot 
Director 
Sierra Club 
New Jersey Chapter 
83 
 
 
Molly Cleary 
Environmental Advocate 
Clean Water Action New Jersey  
86 
 
Joan Divor 
Representing 
League of Women Voters of New Jersey  
87 
 
Ivonne Norman, Esq. 
Private Citizen 
89 
 
Carolyn McGrath 
Teacher 
Hopewell Valley Central High School, and 
Member 
Climate Psychology Alliance of North America 
92 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Anneke van Rossum 
Advocacy and Policy Coordinator 
Delaware Riverkeeper Network 
93 
 
Elif Cam 
Private Citizen 
95 
 
David Pringle 
Consultant, New Jersey Office 
Clean Water Action 
96 
 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Christine O’Brien 
1x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Dave Snyder, J.D. 
3x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Alex Daniel, Esq. 
12x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Raymond Cantor, Esq. 
16x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Joan Divor 
19x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Erika Bosack, Esq. 
Policy Attorney 
Clean Ocean Action 
21x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
John T. Tomicki 
Executive Director 
League of American Families 
22x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Bill Wolfe 
New Jersey Chapter of Public Employees 
For Environmental Responsibility (PEER) 
23x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Anonymous 
26x 
 
mej: 1-99
 
 
 
1 
 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  So, in case you haven’t 
heard this before, welcome to the most interesting committee in the 
Legislature. 
 
 
We have two very powerful and important topics today.  First 
one, which will be about a half an hour in length, is to talk about what New 
Jersey can anticipate with regard to insurance rates in New Jersey as a result 
of a global climate change.  And, our diabolical purpose in bringing that topic 
up is to continue the argument -- the persuasion argument with the people of 
New Jersey -- that this is really serious in terms of impacting their quality of 
life, and we have to do more than we’re doing now. 
 
 
The second three-quarters of the meeting is about a very 
controversial topic, the Green Amendment.  The Green Amendment is 
currently adopted in six states of the United States, and there is a significant 
constituency in New Jersey that would like to see it adopted.  We have two 
fine legislators who have introduced it, and we’re going to hear all about that.  
It is, today, for discussion only. 
 
 
So, that being said, let’s make the meeting official with a roll call. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Tiver. 
 
 
SENATOR TIVER:  Here. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Space is absent. 
 
 
Senator McKeon is currently absent. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Currently, yes; we don’t know for sure. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
 
SENATOR LINDA R. GREENSTEIN (Vice Chair):  Here. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  And, Senator Smith. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, I am also present-- 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  You have a quorum-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --and, looking forward to hearing some of 
the information we’re going to have today. 
 
 
So, let’s start with the insurance part of the meeting first. 
 
 
I would like to ask Christine O’Brien, the President of the 
Insurance Council of New Jersey, to come forward. 
 
 
Christine, if you would.  Especially with your background in 
insurance, and as leader of the Insurance Council of New Jersey, to tell us 
where we stand at this moment in terms of insurance in the state as we go 
through global climate change, and what we can anticipate in the future.  So, 
I’m going to ask you to take out your crystal ball. 
 
 
Christine. 
C H R I S T I N E   O ’ B R I E N:  I always travel with a crystal ball. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  Good afternoon, Chairman; Vice Chairwoman; 
Senator Tiver. 
 
 
Thank you for the opportunity.  I also have with me Dave Snyder 
with the APCIA, who will -- after my opening remarks -- be able to fill you in 
on a little more detail about what is happening abroad and, specifically, what 
that impact is here in New Jersey. 
 
 
The ICNJ, we are the trade association for the property casualty 
insurance industry and companies doing business here.  So, basically, those 
are four major lines of insurance:  Auto, home, commercial, and workers 
comp.  And, as you know in this Committee, talking about insurance -- 
whether it’s home or auto or commercial -- does weave itself into the 
conversation and the bills that you address here. 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
We are uniquely positioned as insurance companies to observe 
and act and react and predict what’s happening with climate and its impact 
on our businesses, as well as us all as policyholders. 
 
 
So, thanks again for the opportunity. 
 
 
Just a little Jersey background for you.  We have 79 companies 
writing auto insurance in New Jersey.  We have 135 writing homeowners, 
and, we actually have 16 insurance companies writing private flood.  Because, 
as you know, flood is something that you guys, through the National Flood 
Insurance Plan, authorized by FEMA. 
 
 
Quickly, just to reacquaint you with your homeowner’s insurance 
policy:  That policy provides for what we call “covered perils.”  And, those 
perils can be lightning; hail; vandalism; fire; theft; tornado damage.  It does 
not cover flood.  Again, you can purchase that through the NFIP, or, now, any 
of the 16 companies that are selling it privately. 
 
 
What your flood insurance policy -- purchased separately -- does 
generally cover is physical damage to your building or your personal property 
caused by flood.  So, for example, if you have damage caused by a sewer 
backup, that is covered if the backup is directly caused by flood.  Your auto 
insurance policy -- we don’t think about this side often -- but it does cover 
flood if you have comprehensive coverage.  We always talk about 
comprehensive and collision.  Comprehensive is the portion that you can 
purchase separately on your auto insurance policy that covers basically all 
incidents outside of a collision. 
 
 
I’ve provided you, if you open up this packet that I sent -- gave 
to you -- you’ll see, my card is attached to it.  It’s just a one-pager, and it’s 
titled, “The financial impacts on weather-related events in New Jersey.”  I am 
 
 
 
4 
going to walk you through just two or three key events on that page.  But, 
before I do that, I wanted to bring your attention to it.  I think it’s a very 
alarming fact about New Jersey’s weather patterns and our level as a state of 
insurance preparedness. 
 
 
There is a very cool data visualization map that you can find on 
the FEMA website that notes data from NOAA.  And, what it shows is that 
New Jersey, we have had 50 -- 50 flooding events, in every county of the state 
between 1996 and 2019.  Fifty.  So, keep that in mind.  As of July 2022, we 
have accounted for 2.6 million residential structures in New Jersey.  We 
actually rank sixth-highest in the nation of purchasing flood insurance, which 
is great.  However, we have 2.6 million residential structures, and as of last 
year in 2023, only 206,000 structures, both commercial and residential 
combined, had purchased flood insurance policies.  So, that is basically 90% 
of the structures in New Jersey not covered by flood. 
 
 
That also emphasizes to me the need that we have of great 
opportunity to continue to educate everyone about what it means to protect 
your greatest assets.  And, in this case, it’s your business; your home; certainly 
your car; and your livelihood. 
 
 
So, let’s go to the sheet.  “Let’s go to the videotape,” as some 
famous sportscaster once said. 
 
 
We talk about Sandy and Irene and other storms that have hit 
New Jersey.  I wanted to first just point out to you that the sheet that I 
handed to you breaks down to two categories:  Hurricanes and tropical 
storms, as well as wildfires.  Because, even though we talk about millions -- 
and, at times, billions -- of dollars that New Jersey is spending, and insurance 
companies are paying out to storm-related events, we cannot forget about the 
 
 
 
5 
impact of wildfires.  And, in 2023, that was the first year we have had more 
wildfires in the past 20 years ever in the State of New Jersey.  So, it is a 
significant other risk.  And, we talk about, “What happens when it rains?”  
We also now know what it means to happen when it does not rain. 
 
 
Please look at what I have here for you with regards to Hurricane 
Sandy -- it’s the second bullet.  I noted that you have $36 billion total in 
damage.  We had $4.5 billion of total insured incurred losses.  Of that $4.5, 
we had 470,000 total insurance claims; 337,000 of them were for 
homeowners; and, 56,000 of them were for auto. 
 
 
And, so, just a footnote to that.  We were approached -- the ICNJ 
-- back in 2017 by the New Jersey Coastal Coalition.  And, you may be 
familiar with them.  The Coastal Coalition formed soon thereafter Hurricane 
Sandy down in Atlantic and Cape May counties, and now it also consists of 
towns from Monmouth and Ocean.  They approached the insurance industry 
after talking locally, at the granular level, what could be done in terms of 
mitigation and resiliency the next time such a storm hits.  And, then, they 
also recognized how there were a lot of totaled cars.  And, as we know now, 
to the tune of 56,000. 
 
 
So, at the ICNJ, we ended up providing the Coastal Coalition 
with $10,000 of seed money to develop an app.  And, the timely goal of the 
app was to direct residents, or even non-residents -- free -- to sign up, and you 
would be able to go on it to see when there was a flooding event and where 
you can move your car to an elevated location to remove it out of harm’s way 
of flood.  Fast forward to this past year, this fiscal year that we’re in -- FEMA 
has granted a $200,000 grant for the continuation of the development of that 
app, which not only will tell you when flooding events are happening -- 
 
 
 
6 
because it could be, as you know in Ocean City, a full moon high tide, Pand 
the bay meets the ocean (indiscernible) meets the sewers -- to a true flooding 
event; a weather-related event; where to move your car, what are the 
evacuation routes that are open and available to you.  So, that, to me, is the 
perfect example of what happens when you’ve got public officials who are 
seeing firsthand, residents who are living it firsthand and what is available to 
actually make people more aware about how to be more resilient -- and, in 
this case, responsive.  So, that’s a good thing. 
 
 
If you hop down to the other bullet for Hurricane Ida.  Hurricane 
Ida, compared to Hurricane Sandy -- which was an enormous coastal event   
-- I have rang true for us who all live inland.  So, we are sandwiched -- as you 
know -- between the Delaware and the Atlantic.  But, what happens when 
the Boundbrook River or the Raritan River all rise, and they flood into 
Millville and other towns that would not have typically experienced that type 
of event?  That event alone caused $2 billion worth of damage. 
 
 
And, I did highlight for you Somerset and Middlesex counties.  
In Somerset, we had 13,000 insurance claims that approximated to the tune 
of $165 million in losses.  And, in Middlesex, we had 14,000 claims to the 
tune of about $155 million in losses.  These are substantially steep numbers 
that probably the majority of people with their homeowners had never 
thought that they would really have to actually use their claims process, talk 
to their agent, talk to an adjuster, to walk them through such type of an event. 
 
 
So, I provide some other data here just to give you the picture of 
what we’re looking at in terms of lost causes and what that means in terms 
of dollars.  And, of course, we could have a whole day of conversation of what 
that means in terms of just your livelihood and your impact on your family. 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
As Dave is going to point out, understanding and preparing for 
weather-related events, even common flooding events, takes all of us to be 
engaged.  So, this is a great opportunity.  I really encourage everybody from 
the private sector, the public, local elected officials, etc., to really engage in 
all the resources that are out there. 
 
 
Senator Greenstein, you actually had sponsored, and still do, a 
resolution -- for the record, it’s SJR79 -- that would have New Jersey recognize 
September as “Emergency Preparedness Month.”  I look forward to working 
with you to move that.  I do think that every effort to raise awareness of what 
we can be doing to mitigate risk and protect our families, our homes, and our 
businesses is worth pursuing. 
 
 
So, Mr. Chairman, with that I would like to actually turn it over 
to Mr. Snyder, who has also, in the packet that I provided you, there’s a 
PowerPoint that we’re going to walk you through.  It’s a lot of visualization 
here in terms of the data we’re going to present, and really the cause and 
effect of what we see happening in New Jersey. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, just, before you turn it over, I 
think two additional comments should be made after your testimony. 
 
 
The first is that in New Jersey, we have a mechanism to start to 
deal with our flood-control issues, and that is Stormwater Utilities.  
Legislation has been in effect for at least five years.  We don’t have a single 
town in New Jersey that adopted it.  It would allow the municipality to collect 
a vigorous from impervious coverage -- large, impervious coverage -- and 
putting it into stormwater improvements.  There’s more than 1,500 around 
the country; not a single one in New Jersey.  So, that’s a shame on all of us 
 
 
 
8 
and our local officials for not taking that method to try to mitigate the 
situation. 
 
 
The other thing -- and, I’m sure you know it -- last term we passed 
a Flood Disclosure Law.  And, the Flood Disclosure Law requires sellers to 
reveal the flooding history of their home, but also requires the DEP to set up 
a website where, if you were either a proposed tenant or a proposed buyer, 
you can look up the flood history of that area of the state where you’re 
buying, or on your specific property.  And, this is a situation where it is buyer 
beware, but it might also inform you whether you need flood insurance or 
whether you should think about it.  Or, maybe you don’t want to live on the 
first floor of the apartment; maybe the second floor. 
 
 
So, those are two laws that are out there to help, but we need to 
do a lot more. 
 
 
So, I interrupted the flow, but I thought it was the right place to 
put it. 
 
 
Would you tell us a little bit about your colleague? 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  Dave Snyder -- I’m going to let him speak for 
himself. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK. 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  Because, we’ve known each other a very long 
time, but I know he can still speak. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK. 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  (laughter) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Mr. Snyder. 
D A V E   S N Y D E R, J.D.:  Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and 
members of the Committee, for giving us the opportunity to visit with you 
 
 
 
9 
today.  And, hopefully, this will be an ongoing series of discussions regarding 
this critically important issue. 
 
 
Your constituents and our policyholders are the same people.  
And, so, to the extent that we can be a constructive force here and elsewhere 
is our primary objective. 
 
 
So, I am Vice President for the American Property Casualty 
Insurance Association, that represents about 1,200 insurers.  Our insurers 
write internationally throughout the United States, and are very proud to be 
based here and write in the State of New Jersey. 
 
 
I am also an elected city council member in Northern Virginia, 
and Chair of Washington -- metropolitan Washington Transportation Energy 
and Air Quality Committee.  So, a little bit of that view is going to certainly 
flavor what I have to say today. 
 
 
So, I am beginning with a PowerPoint; hopefully you all have it.  
The first slide clearly demonstrates that the issues that we’re dealing with in 
climate here in New Jersey are a national issue and a worldwide issue.  And, 
you can see the rather alarming trend of the increase in catastrophe losses. 
 
 
The next chart is one we put together for a part of the country, 
including New Jersey, that shows the losses from natural catastrophes.  And, 
you can see, again, an unmistakable upward trend in the cost to society in 
general and to the insurance industry in specific. 
 
 
The next chart demonstrates something that you all know well, 
which is the rising cost relating to homeowner’s insurance.  And, you can see, 
again, there’s a very definite and clear upward trend in losses, and that’s 
clearly impacting New Jersey homeowner’s insurance. 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
Now, what are some of the elements driving the loss in related 
trends?  Well, clearly volatile and extreme weather events are at the base.  
But, it’s also aggravated by other circumstances.  Increasing people and 
resources in harm’s way; development in flood plains; and developments 
where we’re learning, regrettably, that nature will take its course regardless of 
our attempts to engineer it out.  There are long-term increases in asset values 
in many parts of the state, as there are in the country.  The cost for replacing 
or building new houses has gone up dramatically in the last few years.  
 
 
Then, on top of that, is the sudden and severe inflation.  Your 
constituents have all felt it in one way, but it’s been particularly severe in 
connection with the goods and services paid through insurance claims.  And, 
that includes construction materials, and of course, rising labor costs. 
 
 
So, there’s clearly a need for public and private risk mitigation to 
reduce these emerging risks, including the need for maintenance, and 
including green infrastructure.  In some states, however, counterproductive 
regulatory reactions have occurred, and California is an example of that.  We 
very much want to work with the State of New Jersey to prevent-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So -- what did California do that was not a 
great idea? 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  Well, California had the same sort of rising loss 
trends, but the insurance regulator there was working with a unique 
regulatory structure, and did not include or permit rate increases for about 
two and a half years.  The effect of that was to create an access issue, so it’s 
climate-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Meaning fewer insurers would insure? 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  Pardon? 
 
 
 
11 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  By “access issue,” you mean that fewer 
insurers would provide insurance? 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  Yes.  And, those who were there reduced the 
amount that they were willing to write, because they simply couldn’t get the 
rate sufficient to cover the rising costs. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Do you see that trend in New Jersey? 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  I’ll ask Christine to comment on that. 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  We see that, yes.  We would prefer not to teeter 
towards what we see in California and in Florida. 
 
 
So, New Jersey, like most other states across the country -- during 
COVID we saw, basically, a pause in rate granting -- granting of rates.  
Because we were all experiencing something so new and taking a different 
financial hardship personally across the board. 
 
 
New Jersey is not caught up with, certainly, our neighboring 
states, in terms of playing catch-up.  What that means to have not been 
granted rate during that time period.  And, so, now we are--  There are a 
number of filings for homeowners and auto insurance before the Department 
that are being reviewed, hopefully in a more expeditious manner, so that we 
can’t address the deficit of the need for rate. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Have there been any withdrawals from 
insurance companies providing insurance in New Jersey so far? 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  No.  Overall, Jersey is a very healthy market.  
But it does come with some warning signals right now that we want to stay 
that way and certainly not go back and turn back the clock, where any type 
of insurance that’s offered becomes unaffordable or less available. 
 
 
 
12 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The rate increases requested are based on 
the losses that you’ve already had?  Or, is it guesswork about the future? 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  It’s both. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s both.  And, just to ruin everybody’s 
day, do you have any estimate of the average cost of the increase in 
homeowner’s insurance, or the average increase in flood insurance, or the 
average increase in auto insurance, that you think may be in front of -- I guess 
-- who would it be, the Department of Banking? 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  Department of Banking and Insurance. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  It’s hard to predict right now what the average 
cost will be.  Auto is a little different, because as Senator McKeon knows all 
too well, we have passed several laws over the past few years in New Jersey 
that are impacting policyholders in auto insurance. 
 
 
But from a homeowner’s point of view-- 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  Just for the record, they weren’t mine, 
Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  That’s right. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  (laughter) 
 
 
I’m sure. 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  But, from the homeowner’s point of view, we 
have seen an uptick.  It could be anywhere from a 5% increase up to a 25% 
increase upon renewal for certain homeowner insurance policies.  And, that 
is because those particular companies have not been receiving the rate that 
they were able to prove that they needed.  There’s a rate indication tied to a 
rate request, and, so, sometimes those rate requests are not granted in full.  
 
 
 
13 
And, so, if they’re not, there’s still that delta that somehow needs to be made 
up for over time. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, how about on flood insurance? 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  I’m not sure how flood insurance is rising.  Dave? 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  We can provide that information-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, if you’d send it, send us some more 
information. 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  --it’s a very relevant question. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sorry for the interruption. 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  Yes, we’ll mark that down to get you data on 
that. 
 
 
The majority of a typical auto insurance premium does what it’s 
supposed to do -- which it goes out the door to pay claims.  But, the 
fundamental message, I think today, is, “What do we do to reduce those 
claims in the first place?”  Especially those claims that are, in one way or 
another, relating to weather-related events. 
 
 
So, that’s really the principal--  Frankly, in my view, the principal 
target of all of this needs to be, how do we prevent the losses in the first place 
so they don’t even end up in the insurance premium dollar, and then 
everybody wins. 
 
 
So, let me just continue on with that message.  I talked about the 
importance of mitigation.  We call it a shared responsibility.  The AIA board, 
back in December of 2020, gave us guidance.  And, this is a board that 
represents the largest as well as the smallest insurance companies.  And, the 
lead guidance was, “Work to prevent the loss in the first place through 
mitigation,” which obviously has the beneficial effects of loss prevention.  
 
 
 
14 
And, we fully believe -- because insurance, really, is like one of the last links 
in a long chain that ultimately connects the consumers and individuals.  We 
don’t decide what’s built and where it’s built.  We don’t decide a lot of 
policies that are determined at the local and state level, but we end up being 
the ones who deliver the message. 
 
 
And, so, working with you to prevent the losses in the first place 
is our Number 1 objective, but it really, literally, will require an all-hands-on-
deck:  individuals; enterprises; governance; and insurance companies. 
 
 
Now, what are some of the critical roles of insurance companies?  
Well, first of all, forward-looking models.  What we learned is looking simply 
at the past in the current environment of the changing climate is insufficient 
to predict what the losses are going to be.  So, our models are increasingly 
forward-looking, of course, based upon prior losses as well.  We have an 
absolute responsibility for our own solvency, but in the system to provide for 
accurate assessment and pricing for risk.  We also have a critical role, we 
realize, informing you and individuals about the best practices that will result 
in the lowest possible losses.  And, one particular element of the insurance 
industry’s work is the Insurance Institute for Building and Home Safety.  It 
has provided a lot of information on model codes and how to prevent losses 
from weather-related circumstances. 
 
 
Then, the next two slides, really, are two examples of the benefit-
to-cost ratio; how much mitigation actually returns in terms of preventing 
losses and otherwise protecting people.  And, those are provided just to 
substantiate the critical role and value of mitigation. 
 
 
Finally, what’s the way forward?  It’s something we’re all 
interested in.  And, I love the phrase, “It’s all that easy, but it’s also all that 
 
 
 
15 
hard.”  The first thing is what this Committee is helping to do, which is to 
recognize the rising costs and their sources.  Then, recognize the science that 
weather-related risks are increasing, and that the risks are evolving more 
rapidly than previously understood.  And, beyond just the obvious physical 
losses that you see with a major storm or a hurricane, what we’re seeing is 
that extreme heat and extreme cold is also undermining building systems that 
really are pointing back to the importance of maintenance.  We need to work 
together on a society-wide mitigation, and, in the meantime, ensure that 
insurance regulation permits insurers to adapt to the change and changing 
circumstances, which is the discussion we just had. 
 
 
And, finally, going back to the phrase that I used, “It’s all that 
easy and it’s all that hard.”  Easy to say; hard to accomplish.  But, our view 
is that hearings and conversations such as this will be a part of the answer for 
New Jersey. 
 
 
Thank you, Mr. Chair, and members of the Committee. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, on the comment about building from 
infrastructure, is there any state in the United States -- to your knowledge -- 
that has a building code that recognizes the need for this additional 
maintenance and/or investment in infrastructure and/or housing, or 
commercial buildings?  Do we have the right building code -- that’s the 
question. 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  Well, I’ll get you more information on that, Mr. 
Chair.  An excellent question. 
 
 
We’ve seen a little bit of progress in that area in a few states, but 
frankly most of the building codes are way behind times. 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, we’d like your assessment of ours, 
OK? 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, let us know if there’s a better code 
out there that we should be looking at. 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  For sure, Mr. Chairman.  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, our witnesses are open for questions.  
Does anybody have a question?  (no response) 
 
 
We want to thank you for coming here today, and we both have 
the same interest.  Let’s lower premiums by lowering losses and making us all 
a lot more sustainable. 
 
 
So, thank you very much for coming in today. 
 
 
MR. SNYDER:  Thank you for the opportunity.  Most 
appreciated. 
 
 
MS. O’BRIEN:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
 
OK, next topic is SER43.  SER43 is commonly known as the 
“Green Amendment.”  It is a proposal for an amendment to the Constitution 
of the State of New Jersey. 
 
 
And, we have both prime sponsors here today:  We have Senator 
Linda Greenstein, Senator Zwicker -- Andrew Zwicker, who is in the room. 
 
 
Let me ask Andrew to come on up to the table.  And, let me ask 
the two of you for some opening comments about why you think this 
legislation is needed. 
 
 
So, let me turn it to Senator Greenstein first. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
 
 
17 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, he had to leave? 
 
 
So, let me warn you, Senator Greenstein, you’re it.  Senator 
Zwicker had to leave. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Oh, OK. 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  No pressure. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  (laughter) 
 
 
A “green amendment” is a self-executing provision placed in the 
Declaration of Rights section of a Constitution that recognizes and protects 
the unalienable rights of all people, including future generations, to clean air 
and water, a stable climate, and healthy environments. 
 
 
Green amendments serve as a check on government authority, 
and make clear governments’ duties to -- I’m sorry -- as trustee to equitably 
protect the environment with the help of all the people of our state, regardless 
of race, ethnicity, tribal affiliation, socioeconomics, or generation. 
 
 
Our State and Federal Constitutions provide the overarching 
legal structure, principles, and obligations to which all branches of 
government must conform.  And, I know that our speakers are going to go 
through all of those things. 
 
 
Our environment is our greatest asset.  It protects our health, our 
economy, the quality of our lives, and the sanctity of our bodies and homes.  
We all need clean water, air, healthy environments, to live and thrive.  It is 
just and right that our environmental rights are given the highest 
constitutional protection, and that’s what we’re going to learn today from our 
speakers. 
 
 
The Green Amendment -- to some people -- sounds like 
something that they should perhaps fear; wonder what effect it’s going to 
 
 
 
18 
have; what effect it’s had in other states and other places that have it.  And, 
more and more states are beginning to have green amendments.  I think it’s 
important for us to look at this as something that will help our state, and 
we’re going to try to explain how it will help us and why we shouldn’t fear it. 
 
 
So, that is what today is about. 
 
 
Thank you all very much. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Senator. 
 
 
And, we now have the presence of Senator Andrew Zwicker. 
 
 
Senator Zwicker, would you like to tell us a little something 
about why you’re sponsoring this amendment? 
S E N A T O R   A N D R E W   Z W I C K E R:  Thank you, Chairman; 
thank you members of the committee; thank you to Vice Chair and prime 
sponsor Senator Green-stein. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  (laughter) 
 
 
SENATOR ZWICKER:  Her name is not Senator Blue-stein or 
Red-stein-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I see a campaign slogan coming on. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
SENATOR ZWICKER:  Greenstein for the Green Amendment. 
 
 
First of all, I want to thank Senator Greenstein-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you-- 
 
 
SENATOR ZWICKER:  --for her leadership on the Green 
Amendment, and for the statements -- the facts -- that you just put forth. 
 
 
I think all of us would agree that the idea that if we asked the 
people of New Jersey, “Should you have the right to clean air and clean 
water?”  Who would say no to that?  Of course.  “Should we not just have it 
 
 
 
19 
in our statute, but should we amend our Constitution?” of course, is the 
question that we’re starting to discuss right now. 
 
 
But, the right to clean air and clean water -- and, I use that word, 
right to clean air, not a privilege.  It should not be a privilege; it should be a 
right -- is really about our most vulnerable communities.  We talk about 
environmental justice; we talk about energy justice; we are talking about the 
fact that our most vulnerable communities are often the ones who bear the 
brunt of our pollution, whether it’s the burning of fossil fuels, diesel buses 
that are going through cities, and whatever else it might be.  And, so, that is 
the question that’s in front of us today. 
 
 
As you will hear from those who are close to this various different 
things related to, in the end, “the sky is falling.”  That New Jersey will cease 
to exist.  Of course I’m being a bit grandiose in what I’m saying right now, 
but I will point out that there are three states that have already passed green 
amendments, and you’re going to hear from experts from two of those in a 
few minutes.  And, you will hear that there are no frivolous lawsuits; that 
business is going on as usual.  But, it is another tool in the toolkit for 
protecting the most vulnerable populations. 
 
 
And, so, what I’d like to do is -- just so that you’re aware -- it is, 
right now, Pennsylvania, Montana, and New York all have green 
amendments.  And, we have with us today people who are much more expert 
than either of us who are going to talk about this -- the author of the 
Pennsylvania amendment, Senator Kury; the author of the New York 
amendment, Assemblyman Englebright -- to share with you their perspectives 
and their experiences.  And, I would challenge anyone who is opposed to this 
 
 
 
20 
to really explain to us why New Jersey is an outlier.  Why we are any different 
than what’s going on right now in either New York or in Pennsylvania. 
 
 
And, then, finally, we’ll have testimony from a real national 
expert and an author on the Green Amendment, Maya Van Rossum.  All of 
them will go to tell us, in detail, the reasons why New Jersey must pass a 
green amendment. 
 
 
I thank you, Chairman, for putting it up today for discussion 
and, of course, to Vice Chair Greenstein for your leadership. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Senator. 
 
 
Are we connected to our legislators -- our out-of-state legislators? 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  We should be-- 
S E N A T O R  F R A N K L I N   L E O   K U R Y:  This is Franklin Kury, 
can you hear me? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, Senator, we can hear you. 
 
 
And, what state do you represent again? 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  I was a Pennsylvania senator for eight years. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good.  And, Pennsylvania’s had the Green 
Amendment for how many years? 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Since 1971, May 21, 1971. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Wow. 
 
 
So, you know what’s happened in the last -- ’71 to -- in the last 
60 years? 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Well, I was--  I authored this amendment 
when I was in the House of Representatives in 1969 and it became--  We got 
it through the Legislature two sessions, and it then came on the ballot May 
 
 
 
21 
21, 1971.  So, it’s been on--  I left the Legislature in ’80, but I mean, I was 
there involved in all this getting through, and I’ve been following it.  So, here 
we are. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sir, how strongly did it pass as a public 
referendum?  Do you remember what the vote was?  Not the exact numbers, 
but what the percentage was. 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Yes, it was a million people for it to 250,000 
against it. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sounds pretty popular. 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  And, I point out there were four other 
amendments on the ballot that day, including women’s rights and others.  
Two of them were rejected by the voters.  Women’s rights -- I say this 
carefully, to my wife -- only passed by two to one. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Only. 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  So, the (indiscernible) environmental 
protection was very strong in Pennsylvania that day. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, Senator, if you can, tell us about-
-  Obviously, your state has an extensive history with the Green Amendment.  
How has it worked out with Pennsylvania? 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Well, I think pretty well.  It took a while to 
get there.  The courts, at first, did not want to interpret it correctly.  They 
adopted a Payne vs. Kassals test, which meant that anybody who complained 
about environmental rights had to--  The test was, as a defendant, had done 
all they can to comply with environmental law; have they done everything to 
mitigate damage; and, do the costs outweigh the benefits -- or the benefits 
outweigh the cost?  That was the law for 50 years in Pennsylvania, until the 
 
 
 
22 
Supreme Court in 2013 -- in the famous case of Robinson Township -- and 
they declared that illegal.  They threw it out; they said the test is 
(indiscernible) the English language. 
 
 
Justice Castille -- who was Ronald Castille, a Chief Justice -- was 
very fed up with that, and he said, “The Courts have got to read the English 
language, and there’s no reason that we should go with what the Payne vs. 
Kassals test.”  So, since then, the case--  The law under this amendment has 
been very strong, and the cases brought (indiscernible) succeeded.  Not all of 
them, but I feel very good about it. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, could you tell us about some of the 
cases that have occurred since the Chief Justice did the word-by-word 
interpretation?  What kind of cases have you had?  What kind of results? 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Well, the biggest one, of course, was 
Robinson Township case.  It settled.  That was the case where the state had 
authorized the fracking companies to do their fracking anywhere in the state 
without regard to local township ordinances.  You could go right up to 
somebody’s house and do it.  And, they said that was unconstitutional.  The 
county -- the local zoning ordinances had to be observed.  And, so, they 
reversed that portion of the fracking law.  And, that was a major step forward. 
 
 
There’s another case I’m familiar with is the Legislature had 
voted to use money from the oil and gas (indiscernible) specifically directed 
towards environmental projects.  The income from this can only be used for 
environmental projects.  They wanted to put it in the general fund to avoid 
raising taxes.  That was declared unconstitutional.  So, that was 
(indiscernible).  The Legislature has to abide by it, too. 
 
 
 
23 
 
 
And, of course there’s a case of the Delaware River Basin 
Commission outlawed, or used it to outlaw fracking in the portion of 
Pennsylvania that’s in the Delaware River Basin. 
 
 
So, those are three cases I’m familiar with and involved in 
(indiscernible). 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator, we -- first of all, we want to say 
thank you very much for giving of your time today and sharing your 60 years 
experience with the Green Amendment in Pennsylvania. 
 
 
Are there any questions from members of the-- 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Before I go, can I just offer one other point? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but you do have a question.  You do 
have a question; it’s OK. 
 
 
Senator Greenstein, the prime sponsor, go ahead, ask a question. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Did we want -- the gentleman said 
he wanted to say something? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You would rather the senator go first? 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Sure. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’m sorry, Senator.  Whatever your 
comments are, but stick around for a question. 
 
 
Go ahead. 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Well, I just wanted to say that the Widener 
Law School has a complete history of our amendment on the website.  And, 
if you go to the Widener Commonwealth Law School -- Google that, and 
then go to Article 1 Section 27 resources.  You can get a complete history, 
legislative history, complete chronological history of the amendment.  
(indiscernible) the amendments.  It also shows there’s speeches made in the 
 
 
 
24 
Florida House, and all that stuff is in that history.  So, I urge you to look at 
that if you want to get more history on Pennsylvania. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, thank you, Senator. 
 
 
Senator Greenstein has a question for you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you; thank you, Senator, for 
joining us here today.  It was very helpful indeed. 
 
 
Many years ago, I used to work with Ron Castille, before he 
became Supreme Court Justice.  I worked with him at the Philadelphia DA’s 
office. 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I know he was sort of a conservative 
kind of guy and very bright and thoughtful guy. 
 
 
And, I wanted to ask you now, I believe -- didn’t he do his case 
around 2014, about 10 years ago? 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Twenty-thirteen. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Twenty-thirteen.  That was many 
years after the Green Amendment went into effect in Pennsylvania.  You said 
that was around 1971. 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Seventy-one. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN: During those years in between, did 
much happen with the Green Amendment, or not so much until Mr. Castille? 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Not so much, because the courts had used 
the Payne vs. Kassals test, which, as Castille pointed out, was not based on 
the constitutional language.  So, he threw that out. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I see. 
 
 
 
25 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  Let me just say that I wrote a book about 
the amendment.  I interviewed a lot of people.  The best interview I ever had 
was Ron Castille.  He’s an amazing guy. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  He really is. 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  He was a Vietnam veteran who lost his leg 
in Vietnam, and lying in his bed in Philadelphia at the Naval Hospital, went, 
“What am I going to do with myself?”  The Chaplain asked him if he’d like 
to learn to ski.  He not only learned to ski, he became a ski instructor, and 
that led to his recovery psychologically as well as physically.  He went onto 
the DA’s office in Philadelphia, as you know, and then he became Chief 
Justice of the Supreme Court.  He was the best interview I’ve ever had. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes, he’s a very, very interesting 
person, that’s for sure.  I enjoyed knowing him. 
 
 
But, thank you again.  Thank you for your input here.  It was 
extremely helpful, thanks. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Senator. 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  I want to say one last comment, if I may. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Absolutely. 
 
 
SENATOR KURY:  In my 14 years in the legislature, nothing 
has given me more pride and (indiscernible) satisfaction than this 
amendment.  So, I’m very proud of it. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your good work-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --and have a great day. 
 
 
 
26 
 
 
Our next telecommunications witness will be New York 
Assemblyman Steve Englebright; I think Former Chair of the Assembly 
Environment Committee in New York. 
 
 
Assemblyman Englebright, are you there? 
A S S E M B L Y M A N   S T E V E N   C.   E N G L E B R I G H T:  Yes, 
I’m right here; thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, we’d love to hear your experience 
with the Green Amendment in New York.  How has it worked out?  Where 
do we stand in the process? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
I’m not in the Assembly anymore; I’m in the Suffolk County 
Legislature right now.  (indiscernible), so to speak.  But, the Green 
Amendment was very important, and--  You’re going to ask a question? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I guess, question Number 1:  Is it passed in 
the state?  Has it been adopted by New York? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK.  And, so, how many years ago was it 
adopted? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  It was adopted by the 
voters of New York on November 2, 2021.  The margin was two-to-one. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Easily understood. 
 
 
And, how--  Since that adoption, is it now in your constitution?  
It sounds like we have a two- to three-year experience with it.  What’s been 
your experience with it in New York?  What’s happening as a result of that 
amendment? 
 
 
 
27 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  There have been some 
lawsuits.  It has not been an avalanche by any means.  That was one of the 
things that was predicted by (indiscernible) and who opposed passage and 
who proposed placing this before the voters.  None of the decisions have 
really been finalized yet.  Two decisions -- lawsuits relating to a landfill in 
Central New York, in the Finger Lakes area -- that are still moving their way 
through the court.  There are some other -- maybe in total -- about six lawsuits 
all total that have come forward in the intervening timeframe.   
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Could you give us a sample of the other 
lawsuits, and even the one with the sanitary landfill.  Who is contesting what? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  Well, in the sanitary 
landfill issue, it’s the second-largest landfill in the state.  It still has a good 
deal of capacity, and some of the plaintiffs are nearby landowners -- property 
owners -- who believe that there are horrible odors and fugitive emissions and 
other environmental problems that are unfair. 
 
 
And, so, they brought action against the State Department of 
Environmental Conservation for licensing. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for that. 
 
 
Any--  Do you remember any of the details of the other six? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  They are not as well 
formulated yet.  There’s another four -- it’s not six plus two -- it’s a total of 
about a half a dozen. 
 
 
They are--  For example, there’s one that is from the 
neighborhood of Buffalo, New York, in which the lawsuit claims that the city 
stopped fluoridating its drinking water supply.  It claims that fluoridated 
water is critical for a healthful environment.  It’s a class-action suit. 
 
 
 
28 
 
 
There’s one in the Seneca Lake area that has challenged the 
Department of Environmental Conservation for permitting the waste transfer 
facility.  The plaintiffs claim that the facility would generate leachate that 
will contain PFAS.  And, so, that’s another lawsuit.  Those are two examples. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Great. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I have another-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We appreciate those comments. 
 
 
Senator Greenstein has a question. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  Sure-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  --we appreciate your testimony. 
 
 
What I have begun to hear -- and I’ve heard in previous hearings 
-- is that nothing that much to worry about.  You don’t have an avalanche of 
lawsuits or anything like that.  You have a select few. 
 
 
But, I’m wondering, if the Green Amendment didn’t exist in your 
state, and these lawsuits -- these different lawsuits -- needed some kind of a 
tool to depend on, how would they have been done without the Green 
Amendment?  In other words, how useful is the Green Amendment to helping 
with these lawsuits? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  We don’t know yet, 
because they haven’t come to a conclusion.  I think that there are some 
questions (indiscernible) the Green Amendment has clarified, because now 
every citizen in the state is guaranteed the right to clean air, clean water, and 
a healthful environment. 
 
 
 
29 
 
 
And, sometimes, standing has been an issue, using pre-Green 
Amendment considerations on how to challenge decisions of state 
government. 
 
 
The main thing the amendment does is it assures citizens that 
they won’t be betrayed by their state government, and it gives them the 
ability to bring action if their basic right to clean and healthful and disease-
free circumstances of quality of life is compromised by adverse decisions, 
primarily at the departments of the state. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you, thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good. 
 
 
Any other-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  (indiscernible) during the 
debate, mind you, we had to pass this twice for a constitutional amendment, 
and the debate took place twice on the floor of the assembly is where I led 
the debate.  There was a great deal of concern that was expressed by those 
who opposed it, that there would be an adverse impact on agriculture, for 
example.  We have not seen anything like that at all.  There were concerns 
that this was going to have an adverse impact on energy production.  We 
have not seen that at all. 
 
 
In fact, the sky is not falling and all of the possibilities that the 
sky was going to fall, it was part of the debate.  It had basically not been 
something that had happened.  Instead, what we have is reassurance to our 
general public for the general premise that it is their right to live and build 
their families in a healthful environment. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
 
 
30 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Assemblyman, we so much appreciate you 
giving your time to us today.  New Jersey is trying to figure it out, and your 
comments are very helpful. 
 
 
I think there’s no other questions from the Committee, so, thank 
you again for participating today.  Most appreciated, and good luck in the 
Suffolk Legislature. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN ENGLEBRIGHT:  Thank you very much, and 
good luck with this important initiative in New Jersey. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you so much. 
 
 
OK, so, next I would like two opposing points of view to come 
forward. 
 
 
First we have Maya van Rossum-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  She’s in favor. 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  She’s in favor. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No, I know that. I would like her to come 
up as a witness. 
 
 
And, Alex Daniel, are you here? 
A L E X   R.   D A N I E L, Esq.:  Yes, sir. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, so, let me tell you why I’m putting the 
two of you up here together.  It’s OK to sit by each other, but you can’t--  No 
touching-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  No punching-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No battery, OK? 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  Whatever you need from me. 
 
 
 
31 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, anyway, both of you are -- as far as I 
can tell, from your background and your resumes and also the materials that 
you’ve submitted -- are both very knowledgeable as to the legal implications 
of the Green Amendment. 
 
 
So, what I would like you to do is put in your testimony.  Put in 
your testimony, and then respond to each other, because I think the two of 
you are going to have the greatest legal issues that we need to hear about. 
 
 
Maya, this is about the Green Amendment.  I would like you to 
go first. 
M A Y A   K.  V A N   R O S S U M, Esq.:  Great. 
 
 
Thank you so much, Senator Smith, I really appreciate the 
opportunity to speak and to speak first. 
 
 
And, thank you to all members of the Committee for this 
opportunity. 
 
 
My name is Maya van Rossum; I am an attorney.  I am a founder 
of the National Green Amendments for the Generations movement and 
organization.  I’ve authored the book, The Green Amendment:  The People’s Fight 
For a Clean, Safe, and Healthy Environment, and authored numerous published 
materials about constitutional recognition of environmental rights -- 
particularly advancing this cause of green amendments. 
 
 
At this point, as you’ve heard -- just to reaffirm -- there are three 
states that have green amendments:  Pennsylvania, Montana, and, most 
recently, the state of New York.  There are actually a lot of states that have 
constitutional amendments that talk about the environment, even talk about 
environmental rights, but they don’t accomplish the same highest-standing 
for the right to a clean, safe, and healthy environment that we get as a result 
 
 
 
32 
of the passage of the Green Amendment, which places environmental rights 
on par with other fundamental rights like speech, religion, and property rates, 
for example. 
 
 
I want to reassure you that when it comes to the New Jersey 
Green Amendment, the goal of the Green Amendment is to protect the right 
of the people to a clean, safe, and healthy environment:  water; air; soils; 
ecosystems; the climate.  There is no subterfuge here; there is no ulterior 
motive; there’s no industry or project or developer or development that 
anybody is seeking to go after.  This is really about protecting present and 
future generations, and the values we all get from a clean, safe, and healthy 
environment. 
 
 
In terms of the legal impact, by creating a constitutional right to 
a healthy environment, New Jersey will be putting in place the overarching 
legal obligation and guidance that will ensure that all New Jersey State 
government officials and local government officials prioritize environmental 
rights throughout the decision-making process in the same way you prioritize 
those other fundamental freedoms like speech and religion.  The New Jersey 
Green Amendment will not set aside existing legislation and regulation that 
exists in the state; it will help strengthen it.  It will guide its interpretation 
and its application, because now that existing legislation and regulation will 
be interpreted and applied through the lens of how do we utilize this existing 
legal authority to ensure we government officials are fulfilling our 
constitutional obligation to protect the environmental rights of the people. 
 
 
The amendment will strengthen environmental justice and 
efforts to address the climate crisis here in the State of New Jersey, because 
now both will, in fact, be a constitutional mandate.  And, it will help 
 
 
 
33 
government officials provide needed environmental protections when the 
laws as written fail to do so, either because there’s a loophole that’s been 
intentionally written into a law, or because there’s a gap; there’s an absence 
of legislation and regulation that allows harm.  For example, is what happened 
with regards to PFAS for so many years. 
 
 
And, it will also allow government officials the legal strength and 
tool they need when the laws as written and implemented simply fail to 
protect environmental rights and ensure environmental justice for all 
communities.  Sometimes, the law as written, when we actually apply it, just 
doesn’t get it right when it comes to ensuring critical environmental 
protections.  And, when that happens, the Green Amendment language is 
there for good government officials to turn to to help address the problems 
that still remain. 
 
 
The language, as written, is appropriate.  It is appropriately broad 
in its characteristic.  The language -- the choice of language used -- it’s the 
same kind of broad terminology that is used for other fundamental rights 
included in Article 1 of the New Jersey Constitution.  Broad language is 
essential to ensure that we are able to cover the whole array of environmental 
issues that we need to cover -- the issues that we know about, and those that 
we don’t know about, that we can’t even imagine.  We need to have this broad 
language to ensure that in every context, in every community across New 
Jersey, we are able to ensure that we are protecting environmental rights and 
environmental justice.  Terms like “pure water” and “clean air” are no more 
unclear, or less understandable or definable, than the right to “unreasonable 
searches and seizures;” the right to “freely speak,” for example; the 
prohibition on “excessive bails and fines.”  These are terms that are found in 
 
 
 
34 
Article I of the New Jersey Constitution.  They, like the terms in the New 
Jersey Green Amendment, will require -- and do require -- additional 
definition. 
 
 
The way that definition happens is that good government 
officials in the Legislative branch and the Executive branch, through 
legislation through regulation, through interpretation and implementation, 
seek to define these terms in different contexts.  And, when necessary -- when 
appropriate and when necessary -- the courts will get involved.  But, this is 
how we interpret the language in all of the fundamental rights in the New 
Jersey Constitution.  Legislation, regulation, implementation, and, when 
necessary, the courts.  That’s all we’re asking for when it comes to 
environment rights. 
 
 
I do want to highlight that the trustee language that’s included 
in the New Jersey Green Amendment actually brings forth well-defined and 
understood legal obligations and principles that offers additional legal 
guidance.  So, it’s really helpful in the New Jersey Green Amendment, and 
it’s similar to terminology that we actually see in Pennsylvania’s amendment. 
 
 
With regards to lawsuits -- we hear a lot about lawsuits -- first 
and foremost, the goal of the Green Amendment is to avoid lawsuits.  To get 
better government decision-making in order to avoid environmental harm, 
and, therefore, avoid the need for litigation.  But, yes, when government acts 
in a way that violates the environmental rights of the people or of a 
community -- when it violates environmental justice obligations or trustee 
obligations included in the Green Amendment language -- the people will 
have a constitutional pathway to address the harm in the courts. 
 
 
 
35 
 
 
The lawsuits that are brought will be to address government 
action.  We’re not talking about litigation between private parties.  In the 
three states -- Pennsylvania, Montana, and New York -- that have green 
amendments, all of the legal actions that have been brought are to address 
serious issues of public concern:  protecting drinking water; addressing 
hazardous air pollution; securing cleanup of super saturated long-ignored 
toxic sites; helping the government fully consider and address the climate 
crisis; protecting irreplaceable ecosystems before they’re damaged, 
devastated, and lost. 
 
 
Notably, in the legal actions that have been brought forth, the 
plaintiffs are not just individuals or organizations -- very often, the plaintiff 
themselves are municipal officials; are state government officials; legislators; 
the attorney general; the Environmental Protection Agency officials.  It’s not 
just the people.  And, these government officials are utilizing the Green 
Amendment language out of court but also in court, in order to help them do 
their job to better protect the environment and avoid critical harms to 
communities. 
 
 
There has been no flood of litigation, as you’ve heard from 
Senator Kury and Assemblyman Englebright -- and, I can assure you, also in 
the state of Montana -- there has been no flood of litigation since the 
amendments in those states got legalized.  In Pennsylvania, as you heard, that 
essentially began in 2013 and that was actually as a result of the Robinson 
Township Delaware Riverkeeper Network case.  I’m also the Delaware 
Riverkeeper, so that was a legal action that I and my organization pursued 
with seven municipalities.  So, we had legal life in Pennsylvania for about 11 
years.  In Montana, legal life to the amendment came around the year 2000 
 
 
 
36 
-- that was when the most significant Montana case came forth.  Their 
amendment was passed in ’72, the year after Pennsylvania’s.  And then, 
again, in New York we’ve had a green amendment for just over two years 
now. 
 
 
The number of lawsuits that are making it to the courts in all 
three states, when you look over these timeframes -- three to 10 cases a year.  
In New York specifically, we’ve had the amendment for two years -- six cases 
were filed in court in 2022; four cases were filed in 2023; and, then, in 2024 
we’ve had one case filed so far.  So, New York is proving that it’s also in line 
with Pennsylvania and Montana.  You’ve heard about the Pennsylvania and 
New York cases from the previous testifiers.  We also have an attorney here 
from New York, Ivonne Norman, who is going to give you a little bit more 
detail about some of those New York cases.  If you have some questions about 
the Montana cases, I can speak to that during Q&A. 
 
 
I want to highlight that none of the cases -- none of the cases -- 
have been dismissed as frivolous.  So, we don’t see any frivolous litigation 
based on these constitutional claims. 
 
 
One of the things that we do hear is we hear that these kind of 
amendments are a “giveaway” to the courts; they make work projects for 
lawyers -- which I’ve just demonstrated they’re not -- but it’s also a giveaway 
of power to the courts.  And, really, the contrary is true.  When it talks about 
-- when we talk about -- passing a constitutional green amendment protecting 
the environmental rights of the people, we are embracing our U.S. system of 
democracy and laws by recognizing the appropriate role of the courts.  There 
is nothing unusual about court interpretation of constitutional law or court 
intervention when it comes to environmental protection. 
 
 
 
37 
 
 
Notably, in Pennsylvania and New York and Montana, we have 
not seen any of the justices in the courts, or the courts themselves, overstep 
their authority.  We have not seen them having any trouble interpreting and 
applying constitutional green amendment language, and there is no reason to 
believe that the justices here in New Jersey would behave any differently. 
 
 
The legal remedies for a green amendment violation are not 
money damage payouts out of government coffers.  It’s about equitable 
remedies that cure the constitutional violation.  A regulation on its face is 
resulting in a constitutional violation.  That regulation perhaps has to be 
rescinded or amended -- or a permit, for example.  An existing law is not being 
enforced, resulting in devastating harm to the environmental right to 
communities -- well, now that law has to be enforced.  That’s the kind of 
thing that we’re seeing. 
 
 
I do want to highlight, very quickly -- just in closing -- the green 
amendment proposal before you.  This was put forth five years ago.  We have 
spoken with our -- what I call our legislative champions -- and with other 
advocates, and we really would recommend some adjustments that we’ve 
identified over the five years since the original proposal in 2017 of the New 
Jersey Green Amendment.  We think that the right to healthy soils and a safe 
climate should be added as individual rights.  The terms “historic” and 
“aesthetic” should be removed.  They could create some problematic conflicts 
when it comes to environmental protection.  The human health qualities of 
the environment we recommend be added, as well as an explicit 
environmental justice statement saying that the State shall protect these 
rights equitably for all people.  And, in addition to conserving and 
maintaining natural resources, we think the term “protect” should be added. 
 
 
 
38 
 
 
And, just in very closing, I just want to say this is a really 
powerful opportunity to create an incredible legacy when it comes to 
environmental protection in New Jersey, but also to be a leader nationwide.  
New Jersey could be the fourth state in the nation -- the second state in the 
modern era -- to add constitutional environmental rights to your state 
constitution, and be the first state in the nation where the constitutional green 
amendment speaks directly -- directly -- to ensuring a safe climate for present 
and future generations. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, a couple of comments. 
 
 
Number 1, I didn’t mention -- but, I hope nobody is upset by it 
-- but, every word you’re saying is being recorded.  We have a court 
stenographer here; we’re going to provide the record of this hearing to all of 
the legislators in the Senate and Assembly, so they have this information 
available to them.  So, be careful what you say, because it is being recorded. 
 
 
Secondly, Maya, have you sent those proposed amendments to 
Senator Greenstein and Senator Zwicker? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Yes, we have, through my colleague David 
Pringle, who works with us in the New Jersey Green (indiscernible)--  I believe 
we have shared that. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You might want to re-send, Dave, because 
I’m not quite sure everybody has them, or maybe they got lost in emails. 
 
 
But, that’s most appreciated. 
 
 
Don’t go away.  We’re going to have a cage match shortly. 
 
 
Our next speaker is Alex Daniel, and, as I understand it, Alex, 
you’re from New Jersey Civil Justice Institute? 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  That is correct, Chairman. 
 
 
 
39 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What is the New Jersey Civil Justice 
Institute? 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  We are a nonprofit nonpartisan organization 
that advocates for fairness, efficiency, and predictability in our civil justice 
system, the overall goal being to cut down the cost of litigation in the state; 
improve access to justice; and protect our judges’ ability to function as judges. 
 
 
SENATOR SMTIH:  OK, just for the record, Alex and the New 
Jersey Civil Justice Institute presented us with a memorandum on their views 
of the Green Amendment.  And, by the way, based on that and what I’ve 
heard from Maya, I thought you two would be the perfect point-
counterpoint. 
 
 
So, Alex, would you tell everybody your background and then 
tell us your side of the story. 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  Well, I just want to start by saying I pity the poor 
fool who has to go after Maya.  So-- 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  (laughter) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Say that again? 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  I pity the poor fool who has to go after Maya. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh.  Well, you’re not going after Maya.  
You’re talking about concepts. 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  In all seriousness, SCR43, on the surface, sounds 
and looks like a wonderful piece to our New Jersey Constitution.  Clean air 
and clean water are things we all expect for children and want for ourselves 
and want for future generations. 
 
 
 
40 
 
 
But what NJCJI here, today wants to speak to is the impact it 
will have on our regulatory system here in the State, and our concern that it 
can give rise to regulation by litigation. 
 
 
Our concern is that this amendment, in concert with the New 
Jersey Civil Rights Act, would upend our current system of regulation 
whereby the Legislature sets priorities and delegates authority to specialists 
in our agencies to develop standards for implementing those priorities.  But, 
because this proposal ultimately places a burden on the state not to infringe 
through either action or inaction on -- quite frankly -- extraordinarily broad 
and undefined rights to environmental health, it places our courts in a 
position of acting as super-policymakers.  And, in our democracy, the 
Legislature sets priorities when it comes to environmental rights, 
environmental justice, and the environment in general.  Our Legislature sets 
forth what it thinks is most important, and it delegates the power to regulate, 
in that area, to specific agencies -- agencies staffed by absolutely incredible 
skilled experts and fantastic officials. 
 
 
However, using the New Jersey Civil Rights Act, our concern is 
that one litigant in this state -- just one -- with a judge who agrees with them 
could unmake the priorities set by this Legislature and overturn the standards 
created by boards of experts here in our agencies. 
 
 
You don’t need me to explain to you today how regulations are 
made in New Jersey, but for the benefit of the record, I’ll give you a very 
quick summation.  The Legislature passes a law, directs an agency, “There’s 
a priority with respect to government,” whether it’s cleaning up our waters or 
it’s ensuring that there are no more spills -- whatever it is.  That agency goes 
forward, and through a regulatory process, develops their standards.  What is 
 
 
 
41 
that process?  That process is governed by the Administrative Procedures Act 
here in New Jersey.  That act provides notice periods; that act provides 
comment periods; review periods.  It gives stakeholders, it gives citizens, it 
gives organizations, associations, unions, employees, employers -- anyone you 
can think of who might be impacted by a regulation -- an opportunity to 
stand up and say, “Wait a minute, this might hurt me,” or, “This is a great 
idea.”  The important thing is it brings people together -- people impacted 
directly by regulations -- to come to a consensus to argue, to debate.  And 
then experts draft a regulation that now governs human action in the State.  
The flexible controls and expertise offered by that regulatory system have 
worked very well in New Jersey since the dawn of the administrative state.  
And, since the dawn of the administrative state, our courts have said -- 
resoundingly -- “We’re going to back off; you’re the experts.  You set the 
priorities.  This is a democracy.  We’re going to give deference to when 
regulators come forward and put forth our new rules.  We assume their 
reason; we assume they’re valid.” 
 
 
Courts have created a very narrow and circumscribed process for 
judging the validity of a regulation.  It doesn’t question the wisdom of 
legislators; it doesn’t question the intelligence or technical skills of the 
regulators who put forth those rules.  It simply asks, “Is it legal?”  Did it 
comply with the Administrative Procedures Act?  Does it comport to the 
Enabling Act that empowered that agency to work?  And, does it comport 
with constitutional norms like due process or separation of powers? 
 
 
We have a fine-tuned and well-calibrated system in this state for 
developing regulations.  And, unfortunately, as well-intentioned as SCR43 is 
-- and, it is extremely well-intentioned -- it is ripe for abuse.  Regulation 
 
 
 
42 
through litigation.  How is it that that can come to be?  In New Jersey, we 
have the New Jersey Civil Rights Act; it allows any individual in the state who 
has had their constitutional civil rights, their privileges -- any right guaranteed 
by the laws of this state -- to sue anyone acting under color of law to seek 
civil penalties, money damages, injunctive relief, and of paying their 
attorney’s fees, and vindicating that right. 
 
 
So, what does that mean?  That means that a litigant in New 
Jersey can enact government action to some infringement on their 
environmental rights -- be it through action or inaction -- can now get in 
between the people and their policymakers, and act as a super-policymaker.  
If New Jersey decides that there is an environmental priority that it wants to 
set, now a litigant can throw a spanner in the works in that, and determine 
they know better than the State of New Jersey -- than the elected 
representatives of the people.  That they know better than the experts that 
we employ to draft regulations.  That they can interfere with a process for 
developing regulations.  That’s worked for several generations, and it’s 
produced some of the most effective, potent, and protective environmental 
regulations that this country has ever seen. 
 
 
Private litigants have a role to play; the Judiciary has a role to 
play.  There’s no question about that.  I think Maya and I would agree on 
that point.  But in New Jersey, that role is circumscribed, because we put the 
importance of our policymakers and their ability to enact the will of the 
people above simple litigation.   
 
 
Looking at the terms of SCR43, we have serious questions about 
how you define them and operate them and turn them into meaningful 
decisions by either courts or regulators.  Simple one:  “pure water.”  What 
 
 
 
43 
does that mean?  Well, I’d like to think, at a baseline, it means no pollution 
in your water.  I have a well at home; when I pump water out of that well, in 
my faucet, and I give it to my kids, I expect there to be no pollutants in that 
water.  When you say “pure water,” do you mean just H2O?  If you go to the 
cleanest spring in the cleanest area of this country, and you draw water from 
that spring, and you put it through a spectrograph, you’re not going to find 
just H20.  You’re going to find minerals; you’re going to find trace elements; 
you’re going to find a host of different chemicals in there.  When you say 
“pure water,” are we just talking about H20, or is there more to it?  It’s 
simultaneously over-broad and excessively narrow. 
 
 
So, what do we do with those terms?  Well, as a lawyer, I know 
what I would do.  The Civil Rights Act here in New Jersey affords lawyers the 
ability to charge their fees to the losing party.  We were told that this is all 
about injunctive relief.  We don’t live in a world where it’s all about injunctive 
relief.  We live in a world where litigants have agenda, or attorneys have 
agenda.  And, quite frankly, as a lawyer, I’m thrilled by the possibility that I 
can get my adversary to pay my bill.  There is no better money than the other 
guy’s money.  As a taxpayer, as a homeowner, as a father, as someone who 
has to live in this state, however, I don’t want interested litigants and their 
attorneys setting legislative priorities that the democratic system otherwise 
would set.  And, I don’t want to be paying the State’s coffers someone else’s 
litigation costs. 
 
 
So, look at New Jersey’s Civil Rights Act.  We assume that 
obtaining injunctive relief on these environmental rights could take multiple 
different forms.  This piece of legislation says that New Jersey cannot infringe, 
 
 
 
44 
through action or inaction, on the environmental rights of New Jersey’s 
citizens and residents. 
 
 
So, what does that mean when New Jersey sets a priority?  New 
Jersey, right now, has prioritized offshore wind as the future of energy in this 
state.  Undoubtedly, that is a noble endeavor.  Unquestionably, that is 
important to a sustainable energy future of the State.  But, a litigant using 
the Green Amendment, who is disturbed by the aesthetic impact it would 
have on the environment, who can tie that project to any harm to their 
environmental rights, can gum up the works.  They can put a halt on this 
Legislature, our governors, our government’s priorities, and there’s not much 
we can do.  We don’t get to rely on the regulatory state to correct that issue 
anymore.  Because now this potentially has interposed litigants and judges in 
that process. 
 
 
We mentioned -- I’m sorry, not we -- it was mentioned that we 
haven’t seen a wave of litigation that has impacted energy or the 
environment; that it’s been reasonable; that it hasn’t caused an overflow of 
frivolous litigation in our courts or courts around the country.  I direct this 
chamber to Held v. State of Montana.  Very interesting case.  Years ago, 
Montana decided that one of their priorities was energy production, and in 
the Montana Environmental Protection Act they specifically said that in 
issuing permits -- energy-related permits -- regulators were not allowed to 
consider greenhouse gases.  That was a priority that the voters -- the people 
of Montana -- set through their legislature.  Up comes a lawsuit.  All of a 
sudden, a judge is saying, “No, sorry.  I’ve decided that this green amendment 
trumps the will of Montana voters and their legislature.”  And, now, when 
you consider energy permits, you have to consider greenhouse gases. 
 
 
 
45 
 
 
Now, for environmentalists, I imagine that’s a great result.  
Substitute petroleum energy for offshore wind, and you can see the same 
result here in New Jersey.  Any interested party who can tie back government 
action to harm to the environment and suddenly disrupt the democratic 
process can prevent the people from setting their own priorities. 
 
 
Our goal here today -- NJCJI’s goal -- isn’t to raise alarm.  It’s not 
here to cast aspersions on the environmental movement.  It’s an important 
movement.  I love having clean air and clean water in this state.  I love having 
the opportunity to take my kids to the park; to enjoy our beautiful 
environment; our beaches; all of it.  But, we have a system in place that 
already provides for those things.  We have a system in place that works well; 
that doesn’t turn our judges into super policymakers; that doesn’t let a single 
litigant overturn the entirety of our government.  Imagine you can have every 
legislator, governor, policymakers, 99.9% of New Jersey residents all in favor 
of prioritizing -- you name it.  But, one litigant and one judge can halt that 
process, because we have an ill-defined, overly broad amendment to our 
constitution that seemingly works, seemingly offers us everything you could 
imagine for environmental health.  But, it could be easily weaponized.  And, 
we have procedural tools like the Civil Rights Act -- a wonderful tool for 
vindicating rights here in New Jersey, indispensable -- that can be quickly 
abused by attorneys like me. 
 
 
It’s not that hard to think of all the mischievous activities clever 
lawyers and litigants can get up to, and then have their fees paid by the State 
for that chicanery.  That’s why NJCJI urges that you oppose this measure 
going forward. 
 
 
 
46 
 
 
Our position is simple:  If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.  Our 
regulatory system does a great job now, and it doesn’t stress our courts and 
turn them into something they’re not -- policymakers. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Have you finished? 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  I hope so. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, let’s do this:  Two minutes each, and 
then I have a whole bunch of questions I want to ask both of you. 
 
 
So, Maya, would you like to respond to Alex? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Sure. 
 
 
So, the problem is, it is broken.  If you go across New Jersey, 
there are many, many communities -- particularly frontline environmental 
justice communities -- that are suffering devastating harm from hazardous 
contamination in the air; in the water; in their bodies.  There are kids who 
are attending school in Camden whose capacity to learn is being harmed 
because of the exposure to neurotoxicants that are being allowed to be 
released into the air by industrial operations all around them under existing 
New Jersey State law.  So, it is broken.  For many communities, it is broken.  
And, it does need to be fixed. 
 
 
Now, the thing is, this idea that, you know, the Legislators -- it’s 
all up to the Legislators to decide -- in the first instance, it’s all about the 
Legislators and the regulators.  Actually, that’s not true.  In the first instance, 
it’s all about the people.  And, that is what the New Jersey State Constitution 
is.  It is “we, the people” telling our government officials, what are the 
inalienable human -- inalienable, indefeasible, inherent human rights -- that 
we the people reserve unto ourselves to be protected from government 
infringement. 
 
 
 
47 
 
 
And, now, the people of New Jersey are asking you, as their 
government officials, to give them the opportunity to add environmental 
rights to the Declaration of Rights section of their State Constitution.  So, 
the people of New Jersey can give the Legislators of New Jersey the 
appropriate guidance on how to address environmental protection, 
environmental rights, and natural-resources protection for present and future 
generations. 
 
 
It’s about the people first, and that’s what this process is about.  
It’s not about lawyers trying to misappropriate money, or dollars, or the 
process.  And, I think it’s so sad to think that to characterize that, we have 
all these ill-meaning judges and lawyers in New Jersey just wanting to run out 
and wreak havoc.  That’s not what we’re talking about.  We’re talking about 
we, the people, having an opportunity. 
 
 
And, I would -- I see that my two minutes are probably up-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes-- 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  --so I would like to talk about Held v. 
Montana, but I’ll hold that-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’ll ask-- 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM --for questions. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --in the questions. 
 
 
But, anyway, I also agree with you.  I didn’t like the comments 
about lawyers.  Everybody hates lawyers until they need one.  Lawyers are 
people, too. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  (laughter) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, in any case-- 
 
 
 
48 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  Clearly, the legal profession needs protection 
above all else.  I say that as a New Jersey attorney. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Could be. 
 
 
In any case, you have two minutes to respond.  Not just to her 
response, but anything that you want to. 
 
 
Let’s hear what you have to say -- if you want to say it. 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  We have a democratic system in place.  The 
people already speak.  You go to the voting booth, you put down who we 
want to be our leader.  Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose.  That is the 
nature of the system.  We have priorities; we have limited resources; we have 
to make decisions. 
 
 
But, what this amendment does is empower a small number of 
people, potentially, to override the democratic system that we have in place 
and to prevent our legislators and our agencies from doing the best they can 
with what they have.  In a perfect world, I would say we all have to have 
everything we’ve ever wanted under every circumstance.  That would be 
fantastic.  That’s not the world we live in; we live in a world where our elected 
leaders have to make, unfortunately, some judgement calls that people may 
not agree with, people may not like, but it’s the best we can do in a human 
system. 
 
 
What this amendment threatens is to un-work a system that we 
have now that, quite frankly, works pretty well.  It’s not perfect; far from it.  
Nothing in this life is.  And, it would be crazy to expect perfection.  But, we 
have a system that allows our people to speak through their legislators to set 
priorities, to do what needs to be done -- to do what needs to be done to 
further the interest of our state.  We don’t need this amendment to do that. 
 
 
 
49 
 
 
If you don’t like how our politicians are voting; bills they put 
forth; priorities they set; we kick them out of office.  We’ve done it before, 
we’ll do it again.  I don’t want to see you go, Mr. Chairman, but that’s the 
nature of the job.  People aren’t happy; they get rid of you; and that’s how 
we solve the problems. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, so, I have a couple questions, and then 
I’m going to open up to anybody else who has a couple questions. 
 
 
At least three enormous environmental issues in the State of New 
Jersey.  One of them is wind.  There is a claim that offshore windmills are 
going to kill whales -- or birds -- and that they will affect the aesthetics of the 
shore. 
 
 
If we had passed the Green Amendment last year, and it was part 
of our Constitution, would they be issues that would be litigate-able (sic) 
under the Green Amendment? 
 
 
Hopefully, this is speed chess-- 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  You’ve got the microphone; go first. 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  Thank you, I appreciate it. 
 
 
Under the New Jersey Civil Rights Act, you’re allowed to bring a 
claim against the State for anything that harms your civil rights, your 
constitutional rights.  Sounds like this amendment is a constitutional right 
and a civil right.  And, it enshrines your right to environmental health -- the 
aesthetics, the qualities, the goodness and pureness of the environment -- 
absolutely.  I can see lawyers-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s litigate-able (sic). 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  --bringing this forward. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, the short answer is-- 
 
 
 
50 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  Yes-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --in your opinion, it’s litigate-able (sic). 
 
 
Maya. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Yes, it would be litigate-able (sic) to ensure 
that 
the 
environmental 
implication 
and 
the 
environmental-rights 
implications of the decisions were, in fact, considered. 
 
 
But, it doesn’t mean that the decision would be -- that was 
reached to, if it was to approve a project -- would be overridden, for many 
reasons. 
 
 
One, there are many obligations in the New Jersey Green 
Amendment to protect the climate; to protect the environment and the 
natural resources.  We just heard earlier in this committee meeting about the 
ravages of the climate crisis and how it impacts all aspects of our 
environment.  Because, there is a constitutional obligation with the Green 
Amendment to protect all the natural resources of the state. There necessarily 
is an obligation on you to do the balancing. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Got it. 
 
 
So, the answer is that a judge could say that the benefit on this 
side overweighs the efficiencies? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  There’s--  No, but there’s more to that.  
And, you have to--  As Senator Kury said, you have to look at the plain 
language of the amendment itself and its placement. 
 
 
The placement in the Declaration of Rights section of the State 
Constitution ensures strict scrutiny consideration.  That means if the 
government can say, “Look, we in fact do--”  Let’s say you did agree.  “The 
government, we’re going to approve a project, and it’s going to have very 
 
 
 
51 
significant ramifications for aspects of the environment.”  But, on balance, 
we think that it is the appropriate decision. 
 
 
And, in the court, the government officials would be able to come 
forth--  First off, deference still applies.  This does not override or strip away 
deference or the usual processes we have, as I said.  But, in addition, the 
attorneys for the government -- I presume, if they are reading the plain 
language and looking at the placement in the Constitution -- would come 
forth, and not only would they say, “We have an obligation to address 
protection of all the natural resources of the state,” which the climate crisis 
threatens, and which this renewable-energy project will help protect, but 
addressing the climate is a compelling State interest. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, you’re saying a judge could come to the 
right conclusion? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Could come to the right conclusion. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  And, you have an obligation to protect 
future generations. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Absolutely. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  So, there’s so many elements in this 
amendment.  And, to render it to, “We’ve got ill-intentioned lawyers and 
judges who are just coming and trying to unwind everything” I think just does 
such a disservice to what we’re talking about here.  We really are talking-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’m with you on “don’t pick on the 
lawyers.” 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  And, one final thing. 
 
 
 
52 
 
 
This idea that we’re talking about voting people into and out of 
office.  Well, where is the Constitution in all this? Why do we have a lawyer 
sitting here right now saying that the Constitutional process -- the process to 
amend the Constitution that we the people of New Jersey put in our state -- 
we should just toss that out.  Isn’t that part of the founding and fundamental 
documents, the underlying part of the law here in New Jersey? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So-- 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  It is up to the people to decide. 
 
 
SENATOR 
SMITH: 
 
Let 
me 
combine 
question 
two 
(indiscernible). 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  May I have a chance for-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Make it quick-- 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  --may I have a chance to respond? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right, because -- I mean, there is an end to 
the day. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  You wanted debate. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  Unfortunately, this is the nature of 
(indiscernible) debate-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I want a list of what it means and what it 
doesn’t mean; I don’t want a debate. 
 
 
Yes, sir, if you want a nice 30-second, quick answer. 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  I’d start by saying that the reason a lawyer here 
is today is because we have a First Amendment that guarantees the right to 
free speech, so all thoughts can be considered here today. 
 
 
 
53 
 
 
Second, I heard mention of terms like “strict scrutiny” and “self-
executing.”  Self-execution here means that there is no implementing statutes 
that need to be passed for this to end up in a courtroom, which means all of 
this is going to have to get hashed out by judges trying to interpret profoundly 
broad language.  That sounds like a litigational nightmare.  “Strict scrutiny” 
means that the government has to come forward with the most compelling 
reason; most narrowly tailored means of achieving that end.  And, it has to 
be more than just rationally based.  It’s basically the highest level of scrutiny 
that you can get.  So, this means that even if the government prioritizes 
something, they have to go above and beyond what any other rational basis 
review would require in order to achieve it.  That sounds like interference in 
the democratic process to me. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, we have both of your positions on 
that. 
 
 
This is the same question -- actually, we’re going to combine 
Number 2 and Number 3 together, only because we want to know what 
everything means; where is this all going? 
 
 
So, the two other big controversies in the State of New Jersey -- 
and, there’s more than a total of three-- 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  (laughter) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --controversies. 
 
 
But two really big ones:  There’s a huge discussion about backup 
power at the Passaic Valley Sewage Authority, and the impact of a proposed 
natural gas plant, and the impact on surrounding areas in an EJ community. 
 
 
Third controversy:  The expansion of the Turnpike.  We’re 
talking about -- we’ve talked about -- quite seriously -- about adding 
 
 
 
54 
additional lanes.  And, you know that when there’s more lanes -- I don’t know 
if you know it -- but my view of it is if you add more lanes, you’re going to 
get more traffic, and therefore more air pollution coming from it. 
 
 
Are they litigate-able (sic) controversies under the proposed 
amendment? 
 
 
Anybody who wants to take it.  And, you can give me a short yes 
or no if you want. 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  Do you want to go first, or should I? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Go ahead. 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  Oh, thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  A lot of courtesy at that table. 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  We’re friends here. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  (laughter) 
 
 
MR. DANIEL:  We both love the environment. 
 
 
Absolutely, without question, it would be litigate-able (sic).  It’s 
government action that touches upon the environment under the broad terms 
set in this amendment, as well as the New Jersey Civil Rights Act, you can 
see litigation coming through to challenge it. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Yes, you could see litigation come through 
to challenge it, and you could see how the Constitutional Green Amendment 
and the plain language included in the proposal before you would help guide 
for -- in the first instance, the decision-making by the various regulatory 
agencies involved, ensuring that they are considering the environmental 
ramifications of the decisions; cumulative impacts; generational impacts; as 
well as environmental-justice considerations and the climate crisis. 
 
 
 
55 
 
 
And, then, the Green Amendment--  The plain language of the 
Green Amendment, if there was a legal challenge, would help guide the 
decision-making in the courts and help guide the judges’ outcome. 
 
 
So, yes, there may be litigation.  Litigation doesn’t mean bad-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  (indiscernible) litigation now. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Right. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But, the difference would be it would be 
considered under the Green Amendment. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  And, the truth is, for every single one of 
the issues that you’ve raised -- and, in truth, in pretty much every single case 
that’s been raised in Pennsylvania, Montana, and New York, save like maybe 
two -- the legal actions would have been brought -- and were brought -- on 
other grounds, and they would have been brought anyway.  The Green 
Amendment was brought forth either as an additional claim, and/or to help 
guide the interpretation and the application of the legislation and the 
regulation that was at play there.  So, it played a very helpful role in guiding 
the government action in the first instance, and then help guiding the final 
outcome in the courts. 
 
 
You would have had the litigation anyway.  You just now had 
more informed litigation, more successful and effective litigation, whatever 
the outcome was. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Got your point of view; all right. 
 
 
You guys have been fabulous.  Are there any questions from 
members of the Committee for any of the panel? 
 
 
Yes, sir; Senator McKeon. 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  Yes, thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
 
56 
 
 
And, I would like to--  And, thank you both for that spirited 
discussion.  I feel like we were watching a debate as opposed to testimony, 
and you were both passionate-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Terrific-- 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  --and well-informed and made great 
points. 
 
 
My question -- a little bit of comment, but it’s directed at Ms. 
van Rossum. 
 
 
The--  It would be fair to say having at least 14 years of 
experience in Pennsylvania, I guess, since that decision that the Senator told 
us of and clarified what it meant.  This isn’t going to set up a neighbor suing 
the neighbor who took a couple trees down next door on the basis of the 
constitutional right.  I mean, that’s a fair statement, right? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  That’s a very fair statement. 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  And, I’m coming from someone, by the 
way, who was the prime sponsor of the Green Amendment in the Assembly. 
 
 
And, so, with the experience a couple years in New York and 
Pennsylvania, we know that kind of thing, that some fear mongering goes on, 
it really is just not the experience, and not going to happen.  Correct? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  That’s correct. 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  However -- and this is ultimately my 
concern, we here every day say a little prayer for wisdom and we’re trying to 
do good things and not do any harm. 
 
 
You know, in Europe, it takes X number of years for a project to 
go forward.  Whereas, in the United States, it’s maybe double that time.  And, 
it’s mostly having to do with lawsuits in the courts.  And, it doesn’t protect 
 
 
 
57 
the places that you referenced so eloquently before, environmental justice 
communities.  What it does is it protects places that have people of means, 
access to lawyers, and the ability to litigate to stop things from happening. 
 
 
So, I think that’s a legitimate concern.  It’s the experience of this 
country -- not specific to New Jersey, but the United States versus Europe -- 
where it’s different. 
 
 
How will this -- if at all -- impact that concern? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  The impact -- the concern about-- 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  How will the Green Amendment 
exacerbate that situation when those are the facts? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  So, the Green Amendment is not going to 
exacerbate any current situation when it comes to litigation or lengthening 
litigation or the time for final determinations. 
 
 
First off, as I said, the Green Amendment has come to play as an 
additional claim, and to offer additional guidance in how to interpret and/or 
apply the other legislation and regulation that may be at issue in a case.  So, 
we still have those legal actions ongoing, but actually, the amendment comes 
to bear to provide helpful information. 
 
 
In addition, the amendment helps ensure that before we even get 
to litigation, while we’re in the decision-making process, we are considering 
the full array of environmental impacts.  We are considering the 
environmental-justice ramifications and the generational ramifications, so 
that by the time -- if there were a legal challenge to the government action or 
decision -- government can actually come forth and say, “Here is how we 
considered the cumulative impacts; the environmental impacts; the 
 
 
 
58 
constitutional obligations.”  And, they will actually have a more considered 
and more fulsome ability to explain the rationale behind their decision. 
 
 
So, it actually, ultimately, strengthens the governmental 
position.  And, I would like to say, of all the cases that have come forth -- 
again, we’ve seen dozens of cases at this point over the decade.  We have seen 
-- like I said, three to 10 years, so we’ve seen a couple dozen in Pennsylvania 
and in Montana, and now we’re seeing about a dozen in New York State.  
We are not seeing a lengthening of that litigation or that decision-making 
process. 
 
 
And, we are avoiding some bad outcomes, too.  I can point to 
several decisions where we actually had a better outcome that avoided the 
litigation, that was going to happen but for the more informed decision based 
on the amendment. 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  Let me just--  And, final question, Mr. 
Chairman, just to put more of a fine point, a specific one. 
 
 
We all agree -- correct -- that light rail is a good thing relative to 
environmental policy, if not an affordable way to get around, right?  
Compared to driving in a fossil car or otherwise, right? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  It all depends on context. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  Well, how about the context of -- will 
this Green Amendment be used as a cudgel when someone who can afford 
lawyers keep a light rail path from going anywhere near their home, as 
opposed to the environmental benefits that would come? 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  If you have a person of means who’s intent 
on litigating against light rail because it’s coming nearby their home, they’re 
 
 
 
59 
going to bring that litigation regardless of whether or not you have a New 
Jersey Green Amendment.  What the existence of the-- 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  It’s a matter of I don’t want them to win 
it. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Pardon? 
 
 
No, but what -- what you’re going to be able to do, again, in that 
instance, as I suggested earlier, is you’re going to have--  They’re going to 
ensure that the State did a more fulsome environmental analysis, again, 
considering things like cumulative impacts, environmental-justice impacts, 
things that often are overlooked, so when you get into that hypothetical 
courtroom, the government is actually going to be better positioned to defend 
the ultimate decision that it rendered including, based on its constitutional 
obligations; based on the record that it wore, the more fulsome record that it 
developed; and based on its constitutional obligation to address things like 
the climate crisis; to ensure equitable protection of environmental justice 
communities; to ensure generational protection. 
 
 
So, I would suggest to you that the existence of the Green 
Amendment -- if you did have a legal challenge against a good project that 
really was well-considered, well-placed, and well-defended in terms of the 
environmental ramifications by the State -- the existence of the amendment 
is going to help the government actually defend against the hypothetical legal 
challenge that you are putting forward. 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  All right, thank you. 
 
 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Senator. 
 
 
 
60 
 
 
Let me thank you both once again.  I thought you were both 
magnificent; I thought you put forth your points of view very, very 
eloquently, and we appreciate your comments. 
 
 
If you have additional comments, send them in; send us an email.  
We read everything, honestly. 
 
 
We have a whole bunch of people who signed up to testify; let’s 
make sure they get a chance. 
 
 
For the record, Curt Rowell -- in favor, no need to testify.  Donna 
Merino -- in favor, no need to testify.  Mimansa Kumar -- in favor, no need 
to testify.  Ida Vassallo -- in favor, no need to testify.  Donna Morgan -- in 
favor, no need to testify.  Charles -- I think it’s Shapiro -- in favor, no need 
to testify.  Katie Perrone, New Jersey League of Conservation Voters -- in 
favor, no need to testify.  Alex Daniel -- already testified, he’s on the panel.  
And, Maya van Rossum -- just in favor; she’s already testified. 
 
 
So, people who haven’t testified and who want to testify, I’d ask 
you that if you have a new point, please focus on that, and that brevity is the 
soul of wit. 
 
 
It is now 1:45 p.m.  Does that sound about right?  No, it’s 2:45 
p.m.  It just goes so fast. 
 
 
Elif Cann, Environmental Education Fund -- in favor.  Do I have 
that right?  It looks like C-A-N-N.  (no response) 
 
 
All right, Denise Sanders -- in favor.  Denise, are you here?  (no 
response) 
 
 
Janine Bauer, attorney -- Janine in favor.  Janine, are you here? 
J A N I N E   G.   B A U E R, Esq.:  I’m here. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Would you like to say something? 
 
 
 
61 
 
 
MS. BAUER:  Sure. 
 
 
In Henry VI, Shakespeare -- well, the actor was quoted as saying, 
“First kill all the lawyers, because lawyers are very effective at maintaining 
civil and social order.”  And, that’s what the actor was trying to do, was trying 
to undermine the civil and social order in the play, and that’s why he said 
first kill all the lawyers. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  And Mao repeated that comment 
many times. 
 
 
MS. BAUER:  I didn’t realize I would be defending my profession 
here, but unfortunately -- or, fortunately -- I’ve been at it for 40 years. 
 
 
And, so--  But, I’m going to take your suggestion, Senator, and, 
by the way, thank you all for listening to all these comments and for all of 
your public service -- and longstanding public service.  I know many of you 
personally. 
 
 
I think that this amendment will have a very positive effect on 
the protection of the environment and the preservation of our natural 
resources.  I think we’ve done a very good job at that in New Jersey.  I don’t 
think we’ve done a good job at some other things, but we have done a very 
good job.  But, a lot of it has been through institutional, sometimes personal, 
agenda.  I think if we didn’t have John McPhee and Governor Byrne maybe 
the Pinelands wouldn’t be saved; Governor Florio.  And, I could go down a 
list, both sides of the aisle, as well. 
 
 
But, not only the preservation of our environment and natural 
resources, but also the built environment that is already served by 
transportation -- water, sewer, infrastructure.  I was very happy to hear 
Senator McKeon talk about light rail and for you to talk about the Turnpike 
 
 
 
62 
widening, because that’s one of the things that we really need to do in New 
Jersey.  And, I think that that’s actually one of the aspects of the Green 
Amendment that would really be assisted, because there really is no law, 
there’s not even a state plan that has teeth that will help direct our resources 
and our investment to places where it’s not only most efficient and, for the 
most part, most resilient but that’s best for the environment. 
 
 
I think the positive effect will first be felt in planning.  I’m a little 
surprised that I don’t think the word “planning” even came up today, because 
we’re so focused on litigation.  I think it will help with forward planning by 
the state, the counties -- even though they have a more limited role in New 
Jersey -- and, hopefully, by municipalities. 
 
 
When I was an active lobbyist here, I had several bills sponsored 
by folks that you would know -- none of which passed, I must say -- to bolster 
the elements of municipal plans like the circulation element, which is really 
the transportation element; community facilities; and so on and so forth.  It’s 
very interesting that none of those passed, when they’re really harmless and 
they’re all decided by citizens who create the master plan anyway. 
 
 
So, I think the Green Amendment will help with forward 
planning from the State level all the way down.  I think it will help 
tremendously with corporate planning -- private corporate planning I’ll 
address first.  With respect to location, capital investment, industrial 
processes, job creation -- whatever they want to focus on to try to make 
money.  I read a very interesting article just a couple days ago in the Wall 
Street Journal that actually focused on all the businesses that were making 
money and were targeted to be very good investments because of the PFAS 
 
 
 
63 
crisis and a lot of the other things that, unfortunately, we’ve gotten ourselves 
into in the last couple decades or the last couple centuries. 
 
 
New Jersey has always been a home to innovation, and I think 
that this will be perfect together -- if I could use a phase from the ’80s -- the 
Green Amendment as well as innovation, invention, and creativity.  I think 
that the Green Amendment will help with environmental justice and 
especially the focus--  And, I have seen some of it so far happen voluntarily 
with the Dodge Foundation and Fund for New Jersey, but I think it will help 
the nonprofit sector, the charitable sector, private foundations in their 
distribution of aid and their focus. 
 
 
There is a tremendous amount of philanthropy that happens in 
New Jersey, not only on the corporate level, but we have a lot of very affluent 
individuals who, when they pay us, they create a foundation.  And, those 
foundations drive policy a lot of times.  They even drive legislation.  So, I 
think the Green Amendment will help focus those kind of endeavors. 
 
 
And, I especially think that public utilities, including investor-
owned utilities, as well as regional, county, and local public authorities -- 
whether they be sewage, water, whatever they are, even municipal electric, 
which is mostly passed through now -- I think they really need to take a step 
back and figure out what they’re going to do about climate change.  And, I 
think this is the kind of thing that will help them say to themselves, “Hmm, 
people in New Jersey have a right to clean air.”  We need to think about that 
now in our corporate planning, and how we’re going to not violate that right, 
but in fact advance that right. 
 
 
So, I think there’s so many things--  And, then you get to the 
darker side, which is remediation of pollution.  Which is progressing; that’s 
 
 
 
64 
mostly where I spend my days.  But it’s progressing very slowly.  It’s awkward, 
the idea of (indiscernible) writing tickets and going to municipal court.  Like, 
I have a case now that’s four years in municipal court, which maybe wasn’t 
such a hot idea.  But, nevertheless, I think what really is going to happen in 
addition to what Maya van Rossum said, which is at least in the first decade, 
I see litigation happening as it happens anyway, and lawyers will just add this 
as an additional count to the complaint.  So, not only will there be no flood 
of litigation, but it’s going to take a while to come into its own.  Cases not 
only take a while to get to the Supreme Court anyway; I don’t think the 
appellate division is going to get out very far in front on the Green 
Amendment.  We’re going to -- it’s going to take an appropriate, worthy case 
for the justices to weigh in.  I have a lot of confidence in the Supreme Court.  
I was a Supreme Court law clerk, and I think they take things in a very, very 
considered fashion, so, I’m not worried about them being policy advocates 
and all that kind of thing. 
 
 
And, finally, it’s going to function a gap-filling role.  And, I think 
that is the principal legal comment that I want to make today.  I really must 
say, I completely disagree with Alex that we have this administrative state 
that’s efficient and effective. We do not.  We have a lot of very well-
considered people who work very hard to do what they have to do, but they 
are constrained by the fact that they only have what they have in front of 
them.  And, therefore, there are gaps, and that’s why there’s litigation.  Most 
litigation is because two lawyers get together -- two clients   -- and then they 
hire lawyers, get together, and they have a different interpretation usually of 
the same exact fact; the same exact litigation -- the same exact law, rather, 
and so on and so forth.  Which does not answer the question.  If it answered 
 
 
 
65 
the question, there wouldn’t be litigation, it would be more clear and 
therefore somebody has to decide it, and if there’s not an arbitration clause 
it’s going to be a judge or it’s going to be a private meeting or whatever.  And, 
that’s why we needed that branch.  I mean, it’s just a necessity to have a 
judicial branch. 
 
 
But I just want to--  Especially because of the remediation I do, 
and I’m involved in a case, for instance, right now with Solvay,  I’m not going 
to pick on Solvay, but I only bring it up because since it already has a 
settlement with DEP, the facts are well-known.  Solvay was putting hundreds 
of thousands of pounds of PFAS emitting into the air and water for decades, 
poisoning the wells of people and poisoning the Delaware River and so on 
and so forth.  And, DEP kept criticizing their models, criticizing their air 
dispersion model, so on and so on and so forth.  But, essentially, there was 
no way to stop it, or get them to back off or do all of the things that they’ve 
done now, like substitute a different surfactant. 
 
 
So, we need help.  This is a help.  It’s not the be-all and end-all, 
but it’s going to be a huge, huge difference to say that people have this right.  
It’s really a -- just a complete turnaround from what we have now, which is 
the statutes that you all passed, which are very good, and then the 
administrative state.  This -- to turn around and put it in the Constitution 
and say people have this right, and it’s an enforceable, self-executing right, it’s 
just a gamechanger. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I appreciate your comments. 
 
 
MS. BAUER:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, I have four names on the same form -- 
I guess that means they would like to come up together. 
 
 
 
66 
 
 
Ed Waters Mike Egenton, Tony Russo, and Ray Cantor -- 
Representatives of CCNJ, NJSCC, NJCIA, and NJBIA.  All in opposition. 
R A Y M O N D   C A N T O R, Esq.:  We will not be debating each other. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Who would like to take the lead? 
 
 
Go ahead, Ray. 
 
 
MR. CANTOR:  I’ll start. 
 
 
So, thank you, members of the Committee, Mr. Chairman, 
Senator Greenstein, the sponsor. 
 
 
My name is Ray Cantor, I am with the New Jersey Business and 
Industry Association.  And, we are here today to oppose this resolution, this 
constitutional amendment. 
 
 
I already sent in written testimony, so I am going to try and 
summarize and probably bring up some new points.  There are three things I 
just want to mention from my testimony. 
 
 
One:  Environmental policy is complicated.  It requires 
compromise, it requires trade-offs.  It cannot and should not be left to 
simplistic statements that are contained in a green amendment. 
 
 
This amendment, if passed as well, would be an abdication of 
your role as policymakers -- giving up your responsibility to set those 
parameters; to make those compromises; and giving it over to a judge to 
decide. 
 
 
And, thirdly, this amendment is going to have unintended -- or, 
perhaps, intended -- consequences that we all can’t foresee at this point.  And, 
anyone who sits here and tells you to look at Montana or Pennsylvania or 
New York and their limited experience and tell you how a court is going to 
 
 
 
67 
act or what those consequences will be is simply either naïve or being 
disingenuous.  We really don’t know. 
 
 
Let me talk a little bit about the history of environmental policy 
and why this Legislature is the appropriate branch to be dealing with these 
policy issues and not a court sitting in chambers. 
 
 
Environmental policy, as I said, is complicated.  There is no 
doubt we have suffered through horrible environmental harms in this nation 
as a result of industrialization.  It wasn’t until the late ’60s, early ’70s, that 
we finally took note of all the harm -- the Ohio River catching fire; people 
dying in California through smog; New Jersey having more Superfund sites 
than ever before.  We had a horrible environmental past as we grew as a 
society and industrialized.  But, we took action. We passed the clean air act; 
we passed the clean water act; we passed a series of laws to protect our lands 
and waters and public health. 
 
 
But, when we did those things, we also realized we couldn’t just 
say, “We want pure water.”  The clean water act that was passed, for instance, 
has an aspirational goal of no more discharges into our water.  We realize 
that’s not realistic.  We must discharge into our water, given existing 
technologies and the fact that humans exist; humans are the cause of all the 
pollution that we do.  Our goal is to limit that pollution. 
 
 
So, what the Clean Water Act did was it says our goal is no more 
discharges.  But, we realize we need to have discharges, so we’re going to set 
limits.  Those limits were based on ecological needs; they’ll be based on 
human health needs; they’ll be based on technological limitations.  And, over 
time, those limits have gotten better and better, stricter and stricter, as 
technology -- as other advancements have been made.  And, we have done 
 
 
 
68 
tremendous jobs in this state in cleaning up our water and cleaning our air.  
 
 
Laws that Senator Smith was actively involved with in the 
(indiscerbible) side has led to the cleanup of hundreds of sites, about 
thousands of sites, in the last decade alone.  We are making progress. 
 
 
Are there still legacy pollutants out there, especially in our urban 
areas?  Absolutely.  But, through the legislative process, through those 
abilities to compromise, we’ve been able to clean up our environment and 
keep our economy going.  That’s what it’s all about.  And, our departments 
as well through the administration processes -- I won’t repeat all of Alex’s talk 
before about process, but the system works.  The system does listen to both 
sides.  Sometimes, Senator Smith, you listen to more than both sides, but we 
have the ability to come here and to make those claims. 
 
 
I usually don’t-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But generally, you’re here to say all that 
legislative policy is wrong. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
MR. CANTOR:  But, I would rather be here.  I would rather be 
here in this body arguing or making the case before you than having to hire 
a lawyer and going to a court, which I may not even be able to afford; which 
I may not be able to get to; and having to deal with an unelected judge who 
is going to be making those decisions for us. 
 
 
If we don’t like the policies that are coming from the Legislature, 
we have the ability to engage in the political process and build a new 
Legislature who we hope will do that.  If the public keeps putting back in 
legislators who I don’t like, it’s the public’s choice.  That is how democracy 
works; that’s how our constitutional system does work. 
 
 
 
69 
 
 
On the issue of unintended consequences--  And, Senator Smith, 
your questions, I think Senator McKeon’s questions as well, were right on 
point.  There is not a single project, a single development -- at least on a major 
sense -- that is not going to be challenged, and the more likely outcome, it’s 
going to be denied.  When I heard that the sponsor of the Green Amendment 
in Pennsylvania talked about the one law where they -- the court then 
overturned the legislative enactment because that was going to allow fracking 
companies to ignore local ordinances and be able to frack.  It just reminded 
me of a similar law passed in this body about a year ago, where, because we 
wanted wind to be developed, you allowed the wind companies to ignore local 
ordinances and be able to put in their windmills.  I can see similar things 
happening here.  We’re not going to see windmills; we’re not going to see 
food-processing facilities; we’re not going to see major developments come.  
Who is going to even invest money in a system where it will be dragged out 
by more litigation? 
 
 
And, I totally disagree that this is not going to result in longer 
delays in the process.  And, to your point, Senator McKeon, you’re more 
likely to lose.  You don’t know if you’re going to win or not.  Who is going 
to put their money up?  Who is going to invest in New Jersey when you know 
there is a vague constitutional amendment given to the courts that could 
override every statute, every regulatory requirement? 
 
 
That provision that Maya talked about, the loophole in the 
legislation -- that’s not a loophole, that’s a policy choice by our legislators 
who looked at all sides and made a compromise to balance interest and to 
come to the right conclusion. 
 
 
 
70 
 
 
So, again, I could go on and on.  We don’t know what this is 
going to do, but we do know it’s going to impact probably every major 
development that we want or don’t want, depending on what side you are.  
But it takes power away from the Legislature inappropriately and gives it to 
judges who cannot -- who are not qualified to make these policy choices and 
these balances.  There’s no saying what a judge is going to do on any 
particular case, and New Jersey is not Pennsylvania; New Jersey is not 
Montana.  We don’t know what’s going to happen. 
 
 
As flawed as our democratic system is, I trust our democratic 
system to make the right choices rather than judges who are not prepared to 
deal with these types of very complicated issues. 
 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Tony. 
A N T H O N Y   R U S S O:  OK, well, good afternoon Mr. Chairman and 
members of the Committee. 
 
 
Again, Tony Russo, with the Commerce Industry Association of 
New Jersey.  We represent about 900 companies from large to small and from 
every sector. 
 
 
And, I’m not an attorney, Mr. Chairman, but I’ll give you the 
business reasons why this amendment could really cause some harm. 
 
 
Businesses don’t like uncertainty, and businesses don’t like 
lawsuits, because lawsuits are costly and they’re timely.  And, what we’ve 
learned in the last two hours is there’s still a lot of uncertainty.  New York 
had those court cases, some of them unresolved.  Pennsylvania, who knows? 
Maybe they got lucky that nobody sued.  But, here in New Jersey, if you’re a 
business owner and you’re thinking about whether to invest and now you 
 
 
 
71 
have this amendment -- what’s “clean?”  We’ve had that debate for decades.  
Who defines what’s clean on a soil site; water site; air site?  Our members 
want to do the right thing -- give me the permit, we’ll put in the technology 
we need to operate our businesses.  And, I’ll stop, because brevity is the key. 
 
 
A lot of our companies say the speed at which business occurs 
today is really unbelievable.  I mean, I talk to big companies and small 
companies and decisions happen fast:  where to invest; where to go; because 
of market pressures; because of technology changes. 
 
 
So, proceed with caution on this one, but this one is not going to 
be good for business if it goes through, because it creates that uncertainty, 
and lawsuits are costly. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Mike. 
M I C H A E L   E G E N T O N:  Chairman, thank you; and members of 
the Committee. 
 
 
Mike Egenton, New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce. 
 
 
I agree.  I am a strong believer in the process.  My 30 years here, 
you know, there’s a give and take. 
 
 
I look at you, Chairman, and I know just on site remediation 
alone, back in (indiscernible), your predecessor (indiscernible), Senator 
McNamara, the Brownfields Bill, the LSRP Bill that my association 
recognized you for, and many others when Senator McKeon was in the 
Assembly Chair in that committee. 
 
 
It’s a process that works.  There’s a give and take.  You’re 
probably one of the only legislators in the Senate -- probably in the 
Legislature -- that has the stakeholder process.  You know you put me in 
 
 
 
72 
charge of the public access along with Sara Bluhm when she was at NJBIA 
and we had two fine representatives from the environmental community.  We 
had a lot of give and take; we took it in; we came to you, and said, “This is 
what will work, this is what won’t work.”  It’s a process that does work. 
 
 
And, I guess it was said here today, “Why are we fixing something 
that is not necessarily broken?”  And, you’ve had agency representatives come 
in when we felt it went over and above legislative intent.  My colleagues are 
right.  We don’t want to put that in the Judicial process and have--  This 
tends to be a litigious state.  We don’t want to open up frivolous lawsuits.  
We’d rather have the Legislature work with us. 
 
 
And, stakeholders is everyone.  Everyone in this room.  It’s not 
just representatives of the business community. 
 
 
And, I will say this, and I’ll -- I know brevity, at this late in the 
day, is appreciated.  I get nervous our founding fathers with our Constitution.  
It is--  It’s a special document.  I don’t like opening it up; I always feel that 
you start tampering with that, everybody is going to come out of the 
woodwork and want to put their thing in the constitution. 
 
 
The only time I believe my association allowed a change and 
supported was, as you all grapple with the budget and the finances of the 
State, and trying to do the right thing, we had supported two constitutional 
amendments because it’s a diversion of money.  And, that was the 
Transportation Trust Fund, which I was upstairs talking in the Assembly 
earlier today, because that money never made it to the end; it got diverted.  
And, then, our employers pay payroll taxes -- the Unemployment Insurance 
Fund.  And, then, we saw what happened in the pandemic, how that got 
depleted.  Same thing -- it got diverted.  It’s kind of a sad state that we had 
 
 
 
73 
to pass a constitutional amendment to say, “No, no, no, no, Trenton, do not 
take the money.” 
 
 
Back when Governor McGreevey was in office, they diverted the 
unemployment insurance money to pay for charity care, which damaged the 
Unemployment Insurance Fund, and we had to erase the payroll tax to 
supplement that. 
 
 
One last thought:  I remember one time being at a social event 
and Jeff Tittel, when he was at the Sierra Club, was complaining about the 
Clean Energy Fund and how that got raided and diverted.  I said, “Why don’t 
you do what we do:  Ask that the money be protected, pass a constitutional 
amendment, and protect that money; make sure it goes to its intended 
purposes.”  That is the only time that my association said, “Yes, that’s the 
right thing to do.”  Because if we’re going to go back to our members and say, 
“We’re raising your payroll tax” or, “We’re raising this fee” or whatever, it’s 
less painful for me to sell that if I said that that money is going to go towards 
its intended purpose. 
 
 
So, I believe in the process, I think it works.  You win some, you 
lose some.  But it’s the process that we have, and it’s the best that we have 
here in the United States.  And, I would really respectfully ask you to really 
reconsider this. 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman. 
E D   W A T E R S:  Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, members of the 
Committee. 
 
 
Ed Waters, Senior Director of Government Affairs for the 
Chemistry Council of New Jersey. 
 
 
 
74 
 
 
And, I think--  I don’t want to speak for everyone up here, but I 
know our members tell us that there is not a lack of environmental protection 
law or regulation in the State of New Jersey.  It’s something that you folks 
have done a great job with protecting and making sure that you’re covering 
all aspects of the environment here in New Jersey. 
 
 
I wanted to ask -- talk about a couple things I heard in previous 
testimony.  One thing that really concerned me was that if an industrial 
facility is properly permitted for discharges -- whether they be air or water 
discharges -- I believe in previous testimony that that company could be sued 
under this thing, and even though they’re compliant with the law of the State 
of New Jersey.  Was that correct. ?  Did I hear that correct? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t remember that one.  We talked 
about hypotheticals in the future, like the Turnpike, Passaic Valley, and 
wind. 
 
 
I don’t remember the other stuff that you’re saying. 
 
 
MR. WATERS:  OK, but that’s a--  That would be a concern for 
us. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No, that would be dependent on how the 
amendment is written. 
 
 
MR. WATERS: Yes. 
 
 
And, then the other piece of it is what happens many times if the 
department is understaffed, there’s a delay in getting those permits in that 
time period, like when your permit expires and you’re working on an existing 
permit while they’re still approving your permit.  Could you then be open to 
a lawsuit because you’re not in compliance with the law, but it’s to no fault 
of the company’s own that they’re non-compliant?  That the department is 
 
 
 
75 
understaffed and not able to get those permits done in a timely fashion?  That 
would be another concern that we would have under this amendment, under, 
you know, being able to sue. 
 
 
So, just two things I wanted to point out that could be 
concerning from an industry standpoint. 
 
 
Another thing is, it’s my understanding -- and correct me if I’m 
wrong -- that the three states that were mentioned -- New York, Montana, 
and PA -- all have initiated a referendum in their law which gives people the 
ability to supersede the Legislature, unlike New Jersey, which has been 
against that for many years because we trust the Legislative process.  You 
folks are always out there doing the right thing.  That would be something 
that maybe would differentiate New Jersey from these states that already 
have the Green Amendment, is that we don’t have initiative and referendum 
and that you folks do a great job out here. 
 
 
That’s it; that’s all I have. 
 
 
MR. CANTOR:  Senator, can I just add one thing-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  One thing-- 
 
 
MR. CANTOR:  --in response to what Ed just said? 
 
 
About permitting.  In any major facility or most facilities that 
have air or water discharge permits, those permits are up every five years, and 
that is governmental action. 
 
 
So, when they come back up for renewal or this amendment 
would allow anyone to be able to sue and challenge that permit based on the 
fact that it may not lead to pure water or to clean air or to whatever other 
statement that is in here.  So, every permitted facility right now, it’s renewal 
is going to be up in jeopardy. 
 
 
 
76 
 
 
And, I can think of any number of facilities where I know folks 
don’t like and I’m sure when their permits come up they would be challenged 
if this amendment were in effect. 
 
 
Right now, you can argue we’ve met our regulatory and statutory 
burdens; under this, there’s a whole new set of unknown standards that a 
judge may apply. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any other comments, gentlemen?  (no 
response) 
 
 
Thank you for coming. 
 
 
Ms. Mura.  S-V-A-N-T-R-I-D-U-R?  (indiscernible) 
 
 
There’s a lady who signed up -- I think it’s a lady.  New Jersey 
Student Sustainability Coalition? 
 
 
I apologize, I couldn’t tell how to say your first name. 
S V A N F R I D U R   M U R A:  Totally fine.  I’ll say my name. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Go ahead. 
 
 
In favor. 
 
 
MS. MURA:  Good afternoon, my name is Svanfridur Mura, and 
I am a high school senior at Newark Academy, and I live in West Orange.  I 
am also the high school Co-Chair of the New Jersey Student Sustainability 
Coalition. 
 
 
I have been campaigning for a New Jersey Green Amendment 
since my freshman year, because I think enshrinement of our environmental 
rights in the Constitution is a vital part of tackling our current environmental 
crisis. 
 
 
A few months before I learned about the Green Amendment, my 
dad also got COVID.  Now, four years later, he is still sick.  Previously a 
 
 
 
77 
totally healthy, middle-aged person, COVID gave him COPD and seems to 
age him a few years in just a few months.  Suddenly, his lungs were so much 
more vulnerable.  And, so, in the years since, as I’ve learned more working on 
the Green Amendment, I’ve also learned more about how intimately our 
environments can impact the people we love. 
 
 
This past summer, like many of you, I watched with fascination 
and horror as the sky turned orange with smoke traveling all the way from 
Canada from wildfires that are a symptom of a climate crisis we’ve all 
contributed to.  At school, it was just a mild inconvenience.  I wore a mask; 
some parts of the building with poor ventilation were closed off.  But, in his 
apartment, my dad struggled to breathe.  He couldn’t go to work; he couldn’t 
go about his life; and we were lucky that we had an air purifier, but that did 
very little when we put that in his apartment. 
 
 
As it stands, individual people can’t really do anything when the 
air isn’t breathable.  Protecting our air and also our water; our planet; these 
parts of our environment that are so impactful to our health; needs to be a 
collective responsibility that we all safeguard in order for our individual right 
to a healthy environment to exist, and for the protection of that right for the 
most vulnerable. 
 
 
I am here to represent the youth, because the Green Amendment 
protects future generations.  In Montana, you have already seen young people 
use the Green Amendment to defend our collective futures.  Growing up 
under the shadow of climate change, I can’t begin to explain the kind of hope 
that brings us students. 
 
 
But, as my dad likes to say, as a child I’m not responsible for 
(indiscernible).  The climate crisis is already hurting people today; other kinds 
 
 
 
78 
of pollution are hurting people today; and those of us you referred to as 
“future generations” can’t solve that.  These abstract concepts of a stable 
climate, pure air, and clean water have real meaning and real peoples’ abilities 
to live their lives and work in New Jersey, and it’s the responsibility of those 
in power to take action now and give voters the opportunity to choose a 
Green Amendment -- a tool to protect the rights we deserve. 
 
 
Many of us are fortunate enough not to have to think about 
environmental health, and so we take it for granted.  We think of pollution 
as impacting them, not us; that climate change is far away.  But all of us need 
to breathe, and you never know when an infringement on our health or our 
environment will suddenly be impacting you or the ones you love.  That’s why 
a Green Amendment--  That’s why we need a Green Amendment, to 
recognize that we all need and deserve clean air; pure water; a stable climate; 
and healthy environments all of the time. 
 
 
In the decades I hope to have left of my life, it’s the Green 
Amendment that I think will make the long-term changes to our laws, our 
policies, and our culture that we need for a healthy future. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
Eric DeGesero, Fuel Merchants Association of New Jersey -- in 
opposition. 
E R I C   D e G E S E R O:  I know it’s late in the day, but I have a lot of 
questions, and I know that you recently have been interested in having people 
who are opposed to things come and tell you about why they’re opposed.  So, 
while the hour is late, I will abbreviate some of my testimony.  I had a whole 
 
 
 
79 
section, for example, on the Civil Rights Act that Mr. Daniel has taken care 
of, so we don’t need to discuss that. 
 
 
I would like--  When you look at how -- look at how statutes are 
construed--  I will, for the record, as long as we all agree that statues have 
their plain meaning and the court has interpreted that, and the court has also 
extended that to constitutional provisions; language in the Constitution.  So, 
if you would, there’s an opinion from Justice Stein in here, in case State v. 
Trump Resorts, that extends the NJSA 1:1-1, understanding the litany of 
cases of the Supreme Court, that words have their plain meaning, that they 
have their plain meaning in the Constitution as well as statutorily. 
 
 
When we look at the words “pure,” another thing that the court 
does is look at the word.  If a word is not defined in a statute, then they look 
to other things, like either Black’s Law Dictionary or Webster’s Dictionary.  
So, in Webster’s Dictionary, the definition of “pure” says, “unmixed with any 
other matter; free from dust, dirt or taint; free from harshness or roughness; 
free from what vitiates, weakens, or pollutes.”  So, “pure” means “no 
pollution.”  Let’s see what “clean” means.  Clean means, “Free from dirt or 
pollution.” 
 
 
So, we are entitled to pure and clean air and water.  And, as it 
relates--  It came up early, I just want to put a finer point.  I think Senator 
Greenstein did a good job in defining “self-executing.”  This is from Justice 
Sotomayor’s concurring opinion Monday of this week in the case Trump v. 
Anderson.  I am going to especially talk about the 14th Amendment. 
 
 
Similarly, nothing else in the rest of the 14th Amendment 
supports the majority view.  Section five gives Congress the power to enforce, 
by appropriate legislation -- pardon me.  Section five gives Congress, “The 
 
 
 
80 
power to enforce the amendments by appropriate legislation.”  Remedial 
legislation of any kind is not required.  All the reconstruction amendments 
are self-executing, meaning you do not depend on legislation; the Legislature 
is out of this business in terms of determining what is clean and what is pure. 
 
 
I would then like to go to--  I’m just going to read the title.  This 
is NJSA 58:10A-1 -- the Water Pollution Control Act.  Since 1977, industries 
had the right to discharge into the water, as long as it is done so within the 
parameters of the permits that are issued pursuant to the statute.  I’d like to 
know how, if I’m entitled -- legislation trumps regulation; constitution trumps 
legislation -- and I’ll say the same thing parenthetically for the Air Pollution 
Control Act -- the Air Pollution Control Act of 1954.  So how, then, are the 
permits issued under those statutes if I am entitled an Article 1 right to clean 
air and pure water?  How then am I allowed to pollute?  You’re out of 
business. 
 
 
And, it isn’t just industry--  It isn’t just good industry that’s out 
of business.  I have here a list of the NJPDES permits for both Paulsboro and 
Lower Alloway Township, of which the monopile facility and the wind port 
are both polluters within the definition of NJPDES, of industrial discharges, 
because they have permits to put pollutants into the water.  So, it isn’t just 
bad industry that is -- I’m sorry, I lost my train of thought -- it isn’t just bad 
industry, it’s all industry. 
 
 
There is one thing that has yet to come up that I would like to 
discuss, and that is a comment was made earlier that this is not going to be 
neighbors suing neighbor.  And, I don’t know how that’s possible.  We’ve 
already shown--  I mean, this is a list under the Air Pollution Control Act of 
all the facilities known.  In Middlesex County, there’s 673 facilities that have 
 
 
 
81 
permits to pollute the air.  That’s industry; that’s government; that’s, you 
name it.  It’s a whole host of individuals who are now going to be out of 
business. 
 
 
I’m reading--  This is NJSA 2A35A:  The Environmental Rights 
Act, public law, 1974, Chapter 169, legislative findings and declarations.  The 
Legislature finds and determines that the integrity of the State’s environment 
is continually threatened by pollution, impairment, and destruction.  That 
every person has a substantial interest in minimizing this condition, and that 
it is therefore the public’s interest to enable ready access to the courts for the 
remedy of such abuses.  Then it goes on to define person-to-person means 
everybody -- you, me, State, labor union association -- everybody in the world.  
Every entity you can think of, human being or artificially created human is a 
person under the Environmental Rights Act.  “Pollution, impairment, or 
destruction of the environment” means any actual pollution, impairment, or 
destruction of any of the natural resources in the state or parts thereof.  It 
shall include but not be limited to air pollution; water pollution and proper 
sewage disposal; pesticide; excessive noise; and proper disposal of refuse; 
impairment or neutrification of river, streams, flood plains, lakes, ponds, 
other water resources; destruction of seashore; dunes; wetlands; open spaces; 
natural areas; parks and or historic areas. 
 
 
I only deal primarily with water-pollution control and air-
pollution control.  I don’t do land use, for example.  Stream encroachment; 
NJPDES; stream encroachment; fresh-water wetlands; tidal wetlands; 
CAFRA; everything -- pesticide application -- everything in the universe is 
now subject to this. 
 
 
 
82 
 
 
Here is what this, in terms of neighbor suing neighbor, if you will 
-- this is 2A35A-4:  Any person may commence a civil action in a court of 
confident jurisdiction against any other person alleged to be in violation of 
any statute, regulation, or ordinance which is designed to prevent or 
minimize pollution, impairment, or destruction of the environment.  The 
action may be for injunctive or other equitable relief to compel compliance 
with the statute regulation, and it goes on and on. 
 
 
So, I would like to know how, if enacted, not only are businesses 
that are permitted under the Air Pollution Control Act subject to suit -- 
there’s lots of businesses that have boilers, for example, that are below the 
threshold of requiring a permit.  They are eligible to be sued, but under the 
Environmental Rights Act, how is it not that if I don’t like my neighbor and 
I’m entitled as an Article 1 right to clean air, and they have a furnace, why 
can’t I bring a cause of action against them based on this statute? 
 
 
This is a terrible idea.  This is anarchy masquerading as an 
amendment, and that if we’re going to put this on the ballot, then I 
respectfully suggest we need to put a provision on the ballot to elect the 
Judiciary.  If the Legislature is going to abdicate regulating the environment 
and energy policy in the State of New Jersey, we the people need a recourse, 
and that would be election of those who are making the policy decisions 
(indiscernible) Judiciary. 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
For the record, Rachel Dunn -- Rachel Dawn -- I can’t read the 
handwriting, from Watersport, wanted to be recorded in favor, no need to 
testify. 
 
 
 
83 
 
 
Bridget Brady, Green Amendment for the Generation and 
Delaware Riverkeeper Network -- in favor, no need to testify.  Lindsey 
Kayman, New Jersey Environmental Lobby -- in favor. 
 
 
Ms. Kayman -- or Mr. Kayman, I can’t tell.  Lindsey. 
 
 
Gone, or is she here? 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  No, she had to leave. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  She had to leave. 
 
 
She’s recorded as in favor. 
 
 
Robin G-U-R-I-N?  Does that sound right?  Environmental 
Education Fund? 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Also had to leave. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Gone? 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Gone. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, noted as in favor. 
 
 
Terrance Bankston, Newark resident, member New Jersey 
Environmental Justice Advisory Council -- in favor. 
 
 
Terrance, are you here? 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Stuck on a train. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Anjuli Ramos -- in favor, from New Jersey 
Sierra Club. 
A N J U L I   R A M O S - B U S O T:  I’m here. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Anjuli is here. 
 
 
MS. RAMOS-BUSOT:  Good afternoon, everybody. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good afternoon. 
 
 
 
84 
 
 
MS. RAMOS-BUSOT:  Chairman Smith, Vice Chair Greenstein, 
I am Anjuli Ramos, New Jersey Sierra Club Director, here in support of the 
resolution and constitutional amendment. 
 
 
With the vivid impacts of climate change already giving us rising 
sea levels, severe weather, and disproportionate pollution on over-burdened 
communities, it is more important than ever that New Jersey acts.  This 
constitutional amendment would recognize our right to clean air, clean water, 
and a healthy planet, and would require that all citizens have equal protection 
from government or private activities that are harmful to the environment.  
Everyone should have the right to a clean and healthy environment, and no 
community should bear disproportionate risks of harm because of their 
demographic characteristics or economic condition. 
 
 
This amendment would not only provide a major tool to preserve 
and provide equal access to clean air, water, and soil, it will also help us in 
our work to meet the looming climate-change crisis.  Government and 
industry decision-makers will need to consider our rights and become 
proactive in making environmentally beneficial decisions.  That’s really what 
this is about; it’s the proactive measures for environmental decision-making.  
Establishing an enforceable environmental right will drive better government 
decision-making at all levels, and prevent ecological degradation. 
 
 
And, the Green Amendment is actually quite conservative, 
because it limits government action on infringing on New Jerseyans’ rights 
within the Green Amendment -- air, soil, water. 
 
 
I would like to touch upon Janine Bauer’s point on Solvay and 
PFAS, and also a little bit of, like, the commotion that I heard before about 
people suing permanent facilities.  I don’t think it’s that.  I think it’s that the 
 
 
 
85 
clean air act, the clean water act, and then, consequently, State 
environmental regulations, are reactive in a manner of, like, we permit 
pollution.  How do we control it?  What’s an adequate level?  This would 
provide better decision-making in a proactive way.  So, to go back to Janine’s 
point about Solvay and PFAS, Senator -- well both of you -- and Senator 
Greenstein, you know better than anybody the issues that we’re having with 
PFAS in the entire state.  And, we’re always trying to chase the pollution, 
because they always continuously change their chemicals.  And, it’s because 
our environmental regulations are designed to only capture certain chemicals 
in a reactive way.  This would provide a better mechanism to proactively 
regulate all types of pollution without having to write an entire rule about 
one specific chemical -- which is the PFAS problem. 
 
 
This constitutional amendment would not only empower New 
Jerseyans to fight for their rights, it would actually provide them with a legal 
mechanism to do so.  There isn’t more of a fundamental right than the right 
to live.  But how can we if our air, water, and soil are continuously poisoned 
and the ability for a future generation to survive diminishes? 
 
 
The worst part of all of this is that we’re all aware that we’re 
poisoning our environment.  We fight it, but it keeps happening.  The reason-
-  It’s how our systems are designed.  New Jersey can never outright prohibit 
pollution and loss of environmentally sensitive areas, we can only slow it 
down through permanent processes.  We have been permitting environmental 
degradation for decades, and we sure have a lot of exemptions to make it 
happen. 
 
 
Oftentimes, environmental protection is sacrificed because of 
property rights.  The Green Amendment will level the field -- equal weight to 
 
 
 
86 
property and environment.  As a human, I have the right -- my property, you 
know, I have (indiscernible) property, I have my right to live.  I should also 
have a right to live in a healthy way, which is clean air, clean soil, clean water. 
 
 
New Jersey Sierra Club supports this constitutional amendment, 
as our proud, fundamental mission is to explore, enjoy, and protect the wild 
places of Earth; to practice and promote the responsible use of the Earth’s 
ecosystems and resources; to educate and enlist humanity to protect and 
restore the quality of the natural and human environment; and to use all 
lawful means to carry out these objectives. 
 
 
As you’ve heard before from previous testimony, there are other 
states that already have something similar or the Green Amendment.  It’s 
time for New Jersey to do the same. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
Molly Cleary, Clean Water Action -- in favor. 
 
 
Molly, are you here? 
M O L L Y   C L E A R Y:  Hi; yes, I am. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Come on up. 
 
 
MS. CLEARY:  Hi, I hope you all are having a great day. 
 
 
My name is Molly Cleary.  I am the Environmental Advocate for 
Clean Water Action New Jersey. 
 
 
Often in this Committee, we hear the phrase, “The world is 
ending.”  It is said often because it is true.  The people of New Jersey know 
it, and by the sheer amount of co-sponsors and sponsors on this bill, the 
legislators know it.  The effects of pollution are evident, seen most by those 
in overburdened communities.  Rates of respiratory and cardiovascular 
 
 
 
87 
illnesses are skyrocketing in these communities and will continue to if 
legislation is not passed and if changes are not made. 
 
 
Preserving the public natural resources of New Jersey is crucial 
and a value of those in the state.  The Green Amendment ensures the name 
“The Garden State” rings true, and creates hope for a cleaner future for all 
New Jerseyans as a partner and compliment to the environmental justice law. 
 
 
Since 1972, it has been the mission of Clean Water Action to 
ensure a cleaner tomorrow.  We believe this amendment is both a sign of 
environmental progress and a beacon of hope for the people of New Jersey, 
no matter your ZIP code or the color of your skin. 
 
 
We thank the sponsors of this bill and truly do support this bill. 
 
 
And, thank you all for your time. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
Joan Divor, League of Women Voters of New Jersey -- in favor. 
J O A N   D I V O R:  Good afternoon, Chairman Smith and members of 
the Committee. 
 
 
My name is Joan Divor, and I am testifying in support of SCR43 
on behalf of the League of Women Voters of New Jersey. 
 
 
SCR43 is designed to give New Jersey residents a legal basis 
against further harm to their health and the health of our environment.  We 
are seeing negative impacts in our state like asthma; water contamination; 
and increased flooding -- particularly in overburdened communities that are 
closest to the pollution sources.  These are caused by fossil fuel production; 
incinerators; truck transportation; and climate change. 
 
 
The residents who are living with these realities -- some of whom 
are here today -- speak up against new pollutant sources and new harms to 
 
 
 
88 
their environment, but that has not been enough.  New Jersey needs a Green 
Amendment.  We need a line in the sand that guarantees the public basic 
protections to our health and legal recourse to defend those rights. 
 
 
A bill for New Jersey Green Amendment was first introduced to 
the Legislature over six years ago.  Since then, it has received large public 
support from constituents across the state, and dozens of sponsors in both 
the Senate and the Assembly.  We thank you for holding this hearing today 
to allow for some public voices to be heard, and we urge you to quickly 
schedule a committee hearing with a vote on this critical issue that has stalled 
for far too long. 
 
 
As this bill directly impacts New Jersey residents, it is time to let 
them decide.  Our state and our democracy is at its strongest when New Jersey 
voters are more active and empowered.  By putting the Green Amendment 
on the ballot, voters have the opportunity to codify their right to public 
health and a clean environment for generations to come.   
 
 
Just as League of Women Voters believes that everyone has a 
fundamental right to vote, we believe that everyone has a fundamental right 
to clean air, clean water, and a healthy environment.  That is why we support 
this bill for a Green Amendment.  We urge the members of this Committee 
to vote yes in the near future. 
 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
Ivonne Norman, New Jersey resident and New Jersey licensed 
attorney -- in favor. 
 
 
Is Ivonne Norman here? 
 
 
Go right ahead. 
 
 
 
89 
I V O N N E   N O R M A N,  Esq.:  Good afternoon. 
 
 
Chairman Smith, Vice Chair Greenstein, members of the 
Committee, thank you for the opportunity to testify here today. 
 
 
My name is Ivonne Norman; I am an attorney and an 
environmental justice advocate licensed in New York, and I am a resident in 
Bergen County, New Jersey. 
 
 
I am here to talk to you about the great New York’s Green 
Amendment, and briefly highlight three important points:  The significance 
of placing the Green Amendment in the Bill of Rights of the Constitution; 
the power of the Green Amendment to filling the gaps in existing 
environmental laws and regulations; and third, the Green Amendment did 
not open floodgates of litigation in our courts. 
 
 
What is most significant about New York’s Green Amendment 
is the fact that it’s placed in the Bill of Rights of the Constitution, which 
means that it recognizes environmental rights as fundamental, and at the 
same level as other inherent rights like freedom of speech and freedom of 
religion. 
 
 
Also, just as significant -- because it’s in the Bill of Rights, the 
Green Amendment is self-executing, meaning it does not require additional 
legislation to be made effective or legally binding. 
 
 
Another important quality of the Green Amendment is that it 
carries force and permanency, whereas legislation is more restrictive in what 
it can accomplish.  As a result, this leads to blind spots in environmental 
protection that can result in significant harm that the legislation did not 
anticipate.  And, we heard from prior testimony about these legal gaps or 
blind spots.  And, I can offer two specific, clear examples in New York in 
 
 
 
90 
environmental justice communities in which these blind spots were present, 
which means that the system was broken. 
 
 
One is the village of Hoosik Falls in Rensselaer County.  For 
many years, the residents had been unknowingly drinking water that was 
contaminated with PFAS, which it’s common knowledge are highly toxic 
chemicals.  But, because the population was roughly 6,900, the village was 
not required to test the water system under the regulations as they existed in 
2013.  Those regulations would trigger for water systems serving more than 
10,000 people.  So, the contaminated water went undetected -- unmonitored 
-- to the health detriment of these residents, and they suffer from severe 
illnesses including kidney cancer, testicular cancer, and colitis because the 
right to clean water was not protected.  And, I represent here today that the 
right to clean water should not be triggered by a numerical threshold in 
population -- every single person has the right to have clean water. 
 
 
Another example of this legal loophole is the South Bronx -- 
specifically areas like Hunts Point and Mott Haven, which are sadly referred 
to as “asthma alley.”  Because these communities have been saturated with 
toxic emissions from peaker plants and other polluting industry infrastructure 
that emit carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide in increased amounts.  The 
existing environmental laws were not sufficient to protect the residents’ right 
to clean air.  And, it is common knowledge that the South Bronx has one of 
the highest death and disease rates from asthma in the country.  And, this is 
precisely the type of situations in which a Green Amendment has the power 
to bridge those legal gaps and offer protections to address the unanticipated 
and unaddressed consequences to ensure that all people have the right to 
clean air, clean water, and a healthy environment. 
 
 
 
91 
 
 
Lastly, as I mentioned earlier, the enactment of the Green 
Amendment in New York has not led to vast amounts of litigation in the past 
year or so -- two years -- that it has been enacted; only a handful of cases have 
been filed.  And, only those with (indiscernible) claims alleging significant 
harms of serious community concern have advanced. 
 
 
Two quick examples:  The “fresh air for the Eastside” was the 
first case that was filed in New York on behalf of residents of Monroe County, 
leaving the (indiscernible) a large solid-waste landfill.  The fugitive 
greenhouse gases and pollutants from the landfill, including methane and 
sulfur compounds, have been severely harming the community since 2017.  
Another case in point is an action on behalf of the residents in Albany County 
against the Norlite Waste Incineration Facility, because the emissions have 
caused severe air pollution by releasing crystalline silica and dangerous levels 
of particulate matter.  In both these cases, the long-term exposure to the 
dangerous air pollution has caused severe adverse health consequences 
including lung damage, cardiac disorders, aggravating asthma, and increased 
rate of mortality.  And, this is the reason why these cases have advanced. 
 
 
I can represent to you that a case where -- because someone 
doesn’t like the sound of the windmill, that case will not be -- will not stand; 
simply will not pass muster.  The objective is for the Green Amendment to 
protect environmental rights and to inform how the other laws that add 
(indiscernible) should be interpreted and applied.  So, this precedent should 
deter litigation if the laws and regulations foster a clean and healthy 
environment.  And, those considerations lead to protecting the constitutional 
rights. 
 
 
 
92 
 
 
And, I will end with this principle:  A healthy government and a 
healthy economy are directly dependent on the health and well-being of all 
(indiscernible) people. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, for the record, while this has been 
fabulously informative, at 3:55 p.m. we’re going to stop. 
 
 
For the record, Altoria Frazier, Parents Engaging Parents -- in 
favor, no need to testify.  Carolyn McGrath, Climate Psychology Alliance -- 
North America -- in favor.  Carolyn, are you here? 
C A R O L Y N   M c G R A T H:  Hi, good afternoon. 
 
 
I will try and be brief, because I’m sure you’re all tired at this 
point. 
 
 
But, thank you for listening. 
 
 
So, my name is Carolyn McGrath.  I’m a high school teacher at 
the Hopewell Valley Central High School.  I work with the Youth 
Environmental Society, and I am also here as a member of the Climate 
Psychology Alliance of North America. 
 
 
As part of the Climate Psychology Alliance, we recently released 
a report which outlines the significant mental health impacts that students 
are facing in the face of ongoing ecological breakdown. 
 
 
I’m not sure if you’re aware of these statistics, so I just wanted 
to make the Committee aware of these.  And, these are also impacts I am 
seeing in my experiences working with students as a teacher. 
 
 
So, in 2021, there was a ground-breaking global study of 10,000 
youth which was published in the Lancet Journal.  And, this study found 75% 
 
 
 
93 
of young people found the future to be frightening.  Fifty-six percent believe 
that humanity is doomed, and more than 50% experience feeling sad, 
anxious, angry, powerless, helpless, and guilty.  Nearly half of respondents 
said their feelings of climate change negatively affected their day-to-day 
function.  And, higher levels of distress were associated with feelings of 
betrayal from government inaction. 
 
 
So, I want to highlight this last sentence that was taken directly 
from what we wrote in our report.  The last sentence:  “The profound impact 
that you people in power in our government have on the lives of young people 
today.” 
 
 
So, we’re here to discuss the passage of the Green Amendment, 
which would secure the constitutional right to clean air, water, and a stable 
climate.  And, that would show that you take young people, their concerns, 
as well as their futures seriously; and that you are working to ensure that they 
and future generations have a safe and healthy future. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
Anneke van Rossum, Delaware Riverkeeper Network -- in favor. 
A N N E K E   V A N   R O S S U M:  Hi, I am Anneke van Rossum, and I 
am with the Delaware Riverkeeper Network.  I am an Advocacy and Policy 
Coordinator, and I am here today to speak about the power of the New Jersey 
Green Amendment. 
 
 
Delaware Riverkeeper Network is very active in New Jersey, as it 
is one of the four watershed states, and its environment and health is key to 
the health of the whole watershed and the 17 million people across it.  
 
 
 
94 
 
 
I want to begin my testimony today by dispelling a myth right 
out the gate, and that is that green amendments have negative, unintended 
consequences.  I do have to say that I am very appalled to hear a statement 
that anybody who says otherwise is naïve or disingenuous, because in no way 
people who are advocating to not have their bodies poisoned by pollution are 
naïve or disingenuous. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, let me interrupt you for one second. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We are governed by a Constitution; there 
is a first amendment.  Anybody can pretty much say whatever they want, so 
don’t beat them up too badly. 
 
 
It’s now 3:45 p.m. -- ten minutes left in the hearing.  Please tell 
us something new, and don’t read testimony.  Do it from the heart. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Well, my testimony is always from the 
heart, so I will reference what I have but I will make it quick. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Please.  There’s another four -- I’d like to 
get the four done. 
 
 
MS. VAN ROSSUM:  Well, there can be no negative unintended 
consequences when it comes to the protection of our environment.  How can 
there be negative unintended consequences when we are preventing our airs 
from being filled with carbon -- our lungs from being filled with air of carbon 
monoxide, particulate matter, and even more, that have all been linked to 
increased risks of heart disease, Alzheimer’s, and asthma? 
 
 
It should be noted that there is no evidence of these negative, 
unintended consequences.  It has been an industry talking point without a 
spine, and there is no evidence to the contrary. 
 
 
 
95 
 
 
And, I just want to say, for real importance -- as I am sure you 
are all aware and has been heard -- New York and Pennsylvania, your 
neighbors upstream, both have green amendments.  And, your neighbor to 
the south, Delaware, is also considering a green amendment.  New Jersey has 
an amazing opportunity right now as a leader in the Delaware River 
watershed and for the over 17 million people across it to add itself as a Green 
Amendment champion.  And, while Pennsylvania may be known as the 
“Keystone State,” you, as the Garden State, now have an opportunity to 
become a keystone state and a keystone leader in giving people in the 
Delaware River watershed and beyond constitutional protection of their 
environmental rights. 
 
 
It is so important to drive home and for you to understand that, 
yet again, you are not creating any new rights.  Just as when everybody was 
born, we believe that people across this nation did have their right to have 
their voices be heard loud and free; we enshrined it in our State Constitution 
and in our Federal Constitution because it was so important.  And, so, as we 
were born on this Earth with a right to clean air, pure water, a healthy 
environment, and a stable climate, it is imperative that this also be backed by 
New Jersey State Constitution and the people of New Jersey receive that 
constitutional empowerment. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
Elif Cam, Environmental Education Fund -- I assume in favor, 
but it wasn’t marked. 
E L I F   C A M:  Oh, yes, it is in favor, I’m sorry. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Brevity, brevity. 
 
 
 
96 
 
 
MS. CAM:  I think I was called earlier, but I didn’t hear it. 
 
 
I’m going to keep this really brief. 
 
 
So, I am a high school student.  I am from Princeton High 
School, and I am a sophomore right now.  And, the reason I am here today is 
to testify simply to defend my own future. 
 
 
So, you are living in a world that your predecessors created for 
you, right?  And, we are going to be living in the world that you create with 
your actions today for us.  And, so, this is why the opinions and the concerns 
of the youth must really be heard, as we are the ones who are going to be 
inheriting the world that’s created today towards -- through this legal action. 
 
 
So, we are the kids in this state; we are your kids.  And, we need 
a livable environment in our future like the ones that were provided for you 
by the people who made those decisions for you. 
 
 
I am an environmental leader at my school, and I have started an 
environmental club.  And, I just know how much the youth are passionate 
about these sort of issues and how much they care.  And, just seeing that, I’d 
just like to say -- representing youth today -- that we support this and we 
want a sustainable world.  And, that’s what I’d like to leave you with today. 
 
 
Thank you so much. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for making that point. 
 
 
Dave Pringle, who is not the last speaker, because the last speaker 
is going to be Doug O’Malley, who requested that first. 
 
 
Dave. 
 
 
And, you’re down to two minutes, is what you promised. 
D A V I D  P R I N G L E:  All right. 
 
 
(indiscernible) he had to leave. 
 
 
 
97 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, did he really? 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, that doesn’t give any more time. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
MR. PRINGLE:  Understood; I’d have it no other way. 
 
 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for all your leadership on everything, 
but especially on the Green Amendment, and our prime sponsors past and 
present. 
 
 
I would like to say it was worth the wait of six years -- it wasn’t  
-- but I am really excited we are here today, so thank you. 
 
 
I am going to make five very quick new points. 
 
 
I am scratching my head.  A civil justice lawyer saying the Green 
Amendment is not -- the process is not democratic or representative?  What’s 
more representative or democratic than the Legislature having a pass on a 
resolution either twice or with 60% of the vote, and then putting it before all 
the people?  
 
 
Two:  The New York referendum that passed in 2021.  It had to 
pass the Legislature twice.  I forget the exact percentage, but it was well over 
60% -- I think it was close to 70%-- 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Seventy. 
 
 
MR. PRINGLE:  There were other questions on the ballot; none 
of them did as well.  And, I will double check and get back to you, but I 
believe at least one of them failed.  So, that means there was a lot of 
discernment of what’s on the ballot and how people voted.  So, people knew 
what they were doing when voting, they weren’t just lying, balloting, or bullet 
voting, etc. 
 
 
 
98 
 
 
Three:  I heard a previous gentleman say that the Green 
Amendment is too simple, and everything is more complicated.  Article I of 
our State Constitution:  Number 1, rights and privileges -- there’s a lot of 
them.  You all should read them, especially if you haven’t read them before.  
Most of them are pretty simple, and they implement very complicated things.  
So, Green Amendment is the same thing.  Right to free speech; property 
rights; civil rights; etc., etc., etc. 
 
 
And, I think my final comment, New Jersey being over litigious?  
I think Donald Trump might disagree with that; I think he might think that 
New York is overly litigious, and we see how the Green Amendment is being 
applied in New York. 
 
 
So, thank you.  We know this isn’t going to be fast-tracked.  We 
do hope it’s passed out of committee very soon.  We will follow up with the 
appropriate language we’ve been talking about and additional information on 
case studies.   And, this is just the very beginning of the process; a long way 
to go, so I hope we can see it out of committee and we know it’s not going to 
be fast-tracked after that. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, you did make your two minutes.  
Congratulations. 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Correct the record. 
 
 
MR. PRINGLE:  I’m sorry, it did pass in New York-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  This is beyond two minutes. 
 
 
I’m sorry, go ahead.  I’m joking.  Go ahead. 
 
 
MR. PRINGLE:  It did pass in New York with over 70% of the 
vote in 2020. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Dave. 
 
 
 
99 
 
 
Thanks everybody for coming down today. 
 
 
This is the record.  We had a court stenographer; this will be 
circulated to everybody on both sides of the -- both houses. 
 
 
Everybody did a magnificent job getting their point of view out, 
and now it’s in the hands of this Committee first and then the Legislature 
after that. 
 
 
Thank you for your time and energy today, and we are now 
closing this episode of the most interesting committee in the Legislature. 
 
 
Thank you for coming down. 
 
 
Meeting is adjourned. 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
