Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office,
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey
Committee Meeting
of
SENATE ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
Senate Bill No. 2018
(Prohibits the sale of gasoline containing MTBE)
LOCATION:
DATE:
Committee Room 10
April 27, 2005
State House Annex
11:00 a.m.
Trenton, New Jersey
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT:
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Stephen M. Sweeney, Vice Chair 
Senator John H. Adler 
Senator Henry P. McNamara 
 
ALSO PRESENT:
 
Algis P. Matioska 
Kevil Duhon
John Hutchison
Office of Legislative Services 
Senate Majority
Senate Republican
Committee Aide
Committee Aide
Committee Aide
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
William Cooke
Director
Government Relations
Citizens Campaign for the Environment
1
Charles T. Drevna
Director
Advocacy
National Petrochemical and Refiners Association
6
Joanne Atlas
Council Member
Ringwood Borough
13
Ray Dwyer
Co-Chair
Wild-Oak Neighborhood Action Group
15
Samuel H. Close
Co-Chair
Wild-Oak Neighborhood Action Group, and
Member
Ringwood Environmental Committee
20
Barry Grossman
Representing
Oxybusters
24
Jeff Tittel
Director
New Jersey Chapter
Sierra Club
24
George Cruzan, Ph.D.
Owner
ToxWorks
31
John Kneiss
Executive Director
Clean Transportation Advisory Council
37
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page
Bliss Barker
Private Citizen
44
Gary Grinstead
Environmental Consultant
ENSR International, and
Representing
Lyondell Chemical Company
49
Kathy McGinnis
Private Citizen
56
Hal Bozarth
Executive Director
Chemistry Council of New Jersey
59
David Specca
Acting Director, and
Program Manager
EcoComplex
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
63
Robert M. Cowan, Ph.D.
Private Citizen
63
Jim Benton
Executive Director
New Jersey Petroleum Council
67
John Maxwell
Associate Director
New Jersey Petroleum Council
73
David Pringle
Campaign Director
New Jersey Environmental Federation
74
Gloria Gledhill
Government Affairs Manager
New Jersey American Water
84
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page
Monte Shaw
Director
Communications
Renewable Fuels Association
85
Eric DeGesero
Executive Vice President
Fuel Merchants Association of New Jersey
94
Peter J. Furey
Executive Director
New Jersey Farm Bureau
97
Brooke Coleman
Director
Renewable Energy Action Project
98
Dena Mottola
Executive Director
New Jersey Public Interest Research Group
108
APPENDIX:
Testimony
submitted by
William Cooke
1x
Statement
submitted by
Charles T. Drevna
4x
Testimony
submitted by
George Cruzan, Ph.D.
11x
Statement
submitted by
John Kneiss
21x
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
APPENDIX (continued):
Page
Reports
submitted by
Robert M. Cowan, Ph.D.
26x
Statement
submitted by
Jim Benton and
John Maxwell
73x
Testimony
submitted by
Monte Shaw
75x
Testimony
submitted by
Peter J. Furey
81x
Statement and map
submitted by
ExxonMobil Corporation
91x
rs: 1-110
1
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  Today, we’re having a hearing
on MTBE -- a very, very, very important piece of legislation, and an important
environmental issue for this state.
Just so everybody’s aware, this is the budget break.  And normally
committees -- other committees than Appropriations don’t -- are not meeting.
The Senate Environment Committee, we like to meet during the budget break
because there are so many very important issues.  And this is a chance for us
to elicit testimony, get varying points of view, and decide what we should be
doing.  But there is no bill release planned for today, just as last week when we
had our CAFRA hearing.  There was no bill released.  But we looked at some
very interesting pieces of legislation.
Today, of course, the starting point for the discussion is Senator
Sweeney’s MTBE bill, which is -- which starts the discussion.  I’m glad to
report that we have a variety of points of view -- many, many people who have
signed up to testify.  And it’s kind of interesting to see who is with who, on
which side of the issue.
So, without further ado, let me--  And we’re going to try to switch
back and forth between the various points of view.
Why don’t I start with Mr. William Cooke, Citizens Campaign for
the Environment.
Mr. Cooke, if you’d come forward.
W I L L I A M   C O O K E:  Mr. Chairman, thank you -- and other members
-- for the opportunity to come before you today.
2
I have some copies of my testimony that I’d be happy to provide
to you and your staff.  If you don’t mind, I won’t read it.  I’ll simply spend a
few minutes talking about the issue.
Thank you.
My name is William Cooke.  I’m the Director of Government
Relations for Citizens Campaign for the Environment.  We’re a 501C4, not-
for-profit.  We work on public health and environmental issues in New York,
Connecticut.  I also lobby in Washington, D.C.  We’re also now registered
here.
The reason I come before you today is because Citizens Campaign
for the Environment has been here before on the issue of MTBE.  We’re the
lead organization that got the state legislatures in New York and Connecticut
to ban the substance a number of years ago.  We were also the lead
organization that fought against the New York Mercantile Exchange and the
industry as the phase-in time came.
We have some concerns with what we have read in the media and
what has been offered on this issue.  And I want to spend just a few minutes
talking about those concerns and some misinformation that has been put out
there.
The first area of discussion is related to air quality when you take
MTBE out of the gas.  Now, we looked at EPA sampling data before the MTBE
phase out, and post-, in California, New York, and Connecticut.  And, Senator,
the air quality, after removing MTBE, according to the Environmental
Protection Agency, was improved, was better than with MTBE.
3
We believe at this point that anyone who raises air issues related
to removing MTBE is not looking at the facts.  Now, if they want to question
the Federal government’s air sampling or the science, that’s their business.  But
the EPA is the EPA.
The second issue where we have some concerns is the cost.  MTBE,
on the Chicago spot a few days ago, was around $1.70 a gallon.  Ethanol, on
the same spot market, when I checked it two or three days ago, was $.75,
compared to $1.70.
We hear from the industry, and we--  And the reason I’m
mentioning this is, we heard this same stuff for years in New York and
Connecticut.  We hear from the industry:  “Oh, if you take MTBE out of the
gas, the price will go up.”  Well, Senator, I’ve got to ask you--  I don’t know
what economics courses they took.  But how do you take out an expensive
constituent, replace it with one that’s less than half the price, and then say the
price is going to go up?  And, in fact, what happened in New York and
Connecticut bears this out.  There was no price spikes.  There was no boutique
fuel issues.  What they said was not factually accurate.  And the price is the
price.  The Chicago spot is the Chicago spot.  If you take MTBE out, the price
of gas at the pump should go down.
Another area where the industry’s representatives have been
raising some concerns -- and, again, not legitimate -- is the supply.  “Well, you
know, if you take MTBE out, there’s going to be supply problems.”  Well,
Reuters just reported -- literally a few days ago -- that there are supply
problems with MTBE in the New York area, and that is affecting the price at
the pump and driving it up.
4
Ethanol, on the other hand--  I spoke the day before yesterday to
a national distributor of ethanol.  I said, “Hey, I’m hearing these stories about
shortages.”  This guy’s comments were, “Look, I’ve got this stuff coming out
of my ears.  There is no shortage.”  We, in fact, have a pretty big surplus, and
I’m not expecting that to change in the foreseeable future.
Now, as you folks understand, when an oil company contracts for
ethanol -- they contract -- they get a fixed price for a long period of time.  The
spot is the most volatile.  We’re still coming in at less than half the price.  The
supply is handled through ship, barge, and train car.  So it’s a diversified
supply system.  We’re awash in ethanol, which is the considered replacement,
and it’s a lot cheaper than MTBE.
The big issue on this is not what you substitute.  In fact, we’re not
an ethanol group.  We’re not even interested.  The big issue is MTBE and what
it does in drinking water.  The science is absolutely clear on this.  In New York,
we had the state reduce the drinking water standard to 10 parts per billion.
We lobbied for five -- 10 parts per billion.  You can smell this stuff in the water
at eight.  And I would say, quite reasonably, I don’t think you’d expect your
families to be drinking it.  I certainly wouldn’t expect mine.
The science on the groundwater contamination for MTBE is
absolutely clear and irrefutable.  It travels in groundwater more rapidly and
descends more rapidly than the other constituents in gasoline.  And I suspect
you’ll hear from people who will talk about remediation technology and the
fact that we are not confident we can even remediate MTBE pollution when
it’s in the groundwater.
5
Now, you can pump and treat.  I know a lot about pumping and
treating.  And you can pump and treat for years and years.  And when you’re
done, you probably had no net impact.  What we know is, every day the State
of New Jersey delays getting rid of MTBE, there are more contamination
plumes, there are more issues.
We also would remind you folks that while I’m sitting here
speaking to you, there are lobbyists for the MTBE industry in Washington,
working very aggressively to get complete liability relief for what they have
done.  Whether or not they will be successful, I’m not sure.  Do they have a
great chance?  You bet.  What’s that mean to us?  It means that New Jersey
taxpayers will be forced to be financially responsible for cleaning up the MTBE
contamination in New Jersey.
Now, we had people come to us when we were working in New
York and Connecticut on this issue.  They came to us and said, “Well, this is
really a Federal issue.  We really need to let the Federal government lead the
way.”  That was six years ago.  Last time I checked, Tom “The Hammer”
DeLay could have fixed this years ago.  Well, “The Hammer” decided not to.
Last time I checked, he’s still in power.
I say to folks who say, “Let’s let the Federal government lead--”
Well, I won’t tell you what I say to them.  But suffice it to say, I’m encouraging
you folks, I’m encouraging the legislative body in New Jersey to advance this
bill as rapidly as possible.  Because the bottom line is, this stuff is a poison
we’ve got to get out of our water.  The science is clear.  The alternatives are
clear.  And the lack of Federal leadership is clear.
Thank you for your time today.
6
SENATOR SMITH:  When you get a chance today, make sure
you read your Doonsbury strip this morning.  You’ll enjoy it.
MR. COOKE:  Thank you, Senator.  Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Charles T. Drevna, from the National
Petrochemical and Refiners Association.
Mr. Drevna.
C H A R L E S   T.   D R E V N A:  Good morning, Senator Smith --
Chairman Smith, and Vice Chair Sweeney.
I appreciate the opportunity to appear before you today to discuss
motor fuels policy in the State of New Jersey and the potential impact that
modifications -- especially bans and, therefore, defacto mandates -- will have.
I am Charlie Drevna, and I am Director of Advocacy for the
National Petrochemical and Refiners Association.  We represent virtually every
refiner in the country: major integrateds, major independents, mid-size, and
the smallest of the small.
Let me make one thing I think, to the Committee, perfectly clear
today.
Oh, I’m sorry, I did have some written testimony that, I’m sure,
you guys don’t want me to read, nor do I want to read it.  So I will do the same
thing as the previous witness and try to summarize.
NPRA--  We support the orderly evolution of clean-burning
transportation fuels.  In fact, EPA states that 70 percent of all emissions
reductions since the Clean Air Act -- the original Clean Air Act in ’70 -- is due
to clean fuels and vehicle programs.  That’s a remarkable statistic when you
consider all the stationary source kinds of efforts that have gone on.  Seventy
7
percent of all the emissions that have been reduced have been reduced by clean
cars and clean fuels.
Unfortunately, as we have taken these tremendous strides in
improving air quality, the supply side of the energy equation has, at best, been
ignored.  And my comments today, I hope, will bring you to the conclusions
that any actions taken by New Jersey must maintain the adequate supply of
fuel to avoid potential marketplace disruption and, two, that documented air
quality gains made by the use of reformed leaded gasoline in this state must be
maintained.
And I’m in complete disagreement with the previous witness.
Simplistic answers to a complex question are not only unfounded but, I
believe, detrimental.  There is a lot more that goes into the substitution of one
fuel blend stock for another.  If you take--  If you substitute 12-year -- 20-year-
old single malt scotch for a cheap vodka -- you could use the same glass and the
same ice, you’re going to save money.  Unfortunately, that’s not the way the
refinery system works in this country or any other country.  And there’s a lot
more complex and very expensive capital expenditures that must be made in
order to do those kinds of substitution.  So it’s not merely substituting one fuel
blend stock for another.
But let me also say that NPRA--  We are not pro-MTBE, nor anti-
ethanol, nor pro-ethanol or anti-MTBE.  We are pro fuel supply and
marketplace stability.  So bans, given the circumstances where we find
ourselves in the Northeast, in general -- and particularly in New Jersey --
simply act as defacto mandates, given the Federal reformulated gasoline
8
requirement, that each gallon of gasoline in these areas contain at least a 2
percent oxygenate by weight.
You ban MTBE, ethanol is your only option.  And, again, ethanol
is a great component.  We are going to use a lot of ethanol in this country on
a going-forward basis, simply because we don’t have the refining capacity to
produce all the gasoline that we need without these valuable blend stocks.  But
you do have to look at making this mandate in New Jersey, and elsewhere,
when it -- in the air quality aspects, and the supply. 
The previous witness didn’t talk about the Mobile Source Air
Toxics program, or MSATs.  Banning MTBE is going to make it very, very
difficult for refiners to meet their 1999-2000 baselines and continue to make --
to provide the toxic reductions required.  The new, eight-hour ozone air
standard for national (indiscernible) air quality for ozone -- we don’t know
where that’s going to take us in the fuels region.  All these things have to be
investigated and understood -- the ramifications -- we believe, before any
action should be taken.
We’ve always opposed mandates, as NPR.  We opposed the
mandate in the 1990 Clean Air Act.  We oppose one now, whether it’s by the
Federal government or by individual states.  Because mandates, we believe, are
inefficient mechanisms that brought us to where we are today.
Again, on the supply implications, it would be great if we could say
the refineries in the region -- and particularly the refineries home to New Jersey
-- if they could provide the fuel for the New Jersey driving public.  That’s not
the case.  Gasoline is a regional market.  Forty percent of the gasoline provided
to the mid-Atlantic and New England states come from local refineries: New
9
Jersey, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Virginia.  Forty percent comes from Gulf Coast
refineries: the Houston area, Louisiana, via the Colonial Pipeline.  Twenty
percent comes in from imports as finished product.  And I’m not talking crude
oil.  I’m talking finished products, either gasoline or gasoline blend stocks.
So what happens if New Jersey and other states decide to ban
MTBE?  Well, you’re basing your whole supply on a limited number of
refineries.  You’re shrinking the pool of available sources.  All refineries, all the
importers may not choose to make that blend stock that you need for ethanol,
which is a much more expensive blend stock to make.
Will the refineries do it?  Absolutely, we’ll do it.  If you go ban --
want to ban MTBE, our members will do the best job they can in the area to
provide the gasoline your public needs and deserves.  We can’t guarantee there
won’t be disruptions with no ban, but it just makes that pool of availability
shrink.
We don’t--  Again, we don’t dislike ethanol.  I think people have
a misconception about where NPRA and our members are on ethanol.  We just
don’t want to be told where to use it, when to use it, and how much to use.  I
think we’ve been there and done that on other mandates.  And, probably,
that’s why I’m sitting here testifying today.  Again, I can’t emphasize enough
that bans and mandates are the most inefficient mechanisms to provide the
public with what they desire.
On the air quality--  That’s an interesting point the previous
witness stated.  It’s interesting to note that in that same time frame--  Again,
the simplistic answers are--  There was the introduction, in January 2004, of
the Tier 2 sulfur gasoline in all gasoline across the country.  That had a
10
tremendous--  And, plus, the new model year cars had better emissions
controls.  That had tremendous impact on air pollution, air emissions.
If I maintain--  If you look at apples to apples -- that, especially in
the summer, you will see an increase in VOC emissions by the use of ethanol
rather than -- with RFG -- rather than the use of MTBE.  And the California
Energy Air Resources Board has documented this.  They banned MTBE, were
forced to use ethanol because of the Federal mandate, and they now have a 40-
ton per day VOC increase in emissions that they don’t know what to do with.
And they’re going to have to revise their state implementation plans.
Again, a little care and a little analysis before we proceed, I think,
is in order.  It’s the prudent thing to do.  Know what the outcome is going to
be before we act.
So, let me make some recommendations on what we can do.
Oh, one other thing I’d like to mention--  The New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection has stated that MTBE contamination
is not currently a public health concern in the New Jersey public drinking
water supplies.  So I think we should make that point clear -- that the New
Jersey Department of Environmental Protection states that it’s not a public
health concern.  That’s not to say it should be there.  No gasoline component
should be in water.  We don’t need it there, it shouldn’t be there.  It belongs
in secure pipes and tanks.  And the refining industry has done a lot to help
prevent contamination.  But, again, to ban it is not the way to go.
The recommendations I can make--  There is an energy bill out
there.  There is an energy bill that will harmonize regional gasoline by simply
removing that burdensome 2 percent requirement for RFG.  If you allow the
11
refining industry to make gasoline the way we know how to make it, to make
it the best way and the cleanest way we can, again, without bans and
mandates, you will solve a lot of your problems, as far as patchwork bans of
this state versus this state.  Because the 2 percent requirement is the driving
force behind those--  I saw a map here before of all the different boutique fuels
in the country.  You eliminate the 2 percent requirement, a lot of those will go
away.
Here’s another thing you can do.  California and New York have
submitted waivers of the 2 percent requirement on the oxygen -- for the oxygen
mandate.  California, as a matter of fact, has the court case that I don’t want
to say they won, because it’s not over yet -- but the court has directed the EPA
to do a better job of figuring out what the real deal is in California and why the
2 percent requirement and ethanol, together, may not be the best thing for the
state, vis á vis air pollution.
So, in summary, I’d just like to say that, all too often--  We have
transportation, energy, and environmental laws and regulations -- they’re
always intertwined.  But, all too often, they’re most debated in different
committees, whether it be the Federal or state committees.  These are
intertwined.  You have to know and understand what the impact of rules, and
laws, and regulations have on each of these.
So our thoughts are, cooperative efforts between states, regions,
and the industries, including the feds, to get the job done--  If you would,
somehow, get your State Senators to support that energy bill, your problems
will go away.
Thank you.
12
And I’d be happy to take any questions you might have.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Drevna.
Are there any questions?
SENATOR ADLER:  Yes.
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Adler.
SENATOR ADLER:  Mr. Drevna, you work in Washington, or do
you work around the country?
MR. DREVNA:  Oh, I’m sorry.  Yes, sir.  I work out of
Washington.
SENATOR ADLER:  What’s your sense of the likelihood that
either New York or California will be granted the EPA waiver that you
presented?
MR. DREVNA:  Well, I think--  If you look--  If you strip out all
(indiscernible), which is pretty difficult to do--  But they both should happen.
But they’re out there by themselves.  If you want to put pressure--
Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Rhode Island -- if you all send a message
to Washington that this is about as much fun as you want to have with this 2
percent requirement--
SENATOR ADLER:  We voted for Kerry.  We sent a message to
Washington.  It didn’t help.  (laughter)
MR. DREVNA:  Touché.
SENATOR McNAMARA:  Better luck next time.
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Sweeney.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Just one quick comment, because I know
you have a lot of testimony.
13
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Because the DEP, for whatever reason,
says it’s okay to have MTBE in the -- it’s not a problem--  When you can’t
drink the water, it’s a problem.  I don’t care what the DEP says.  If you can’t
drink the water -- and Senator McNamara probably knows better than most --
it’s a problem.  DEP needs to look at that again.
MR. DREVNA:  Can I make a comment on that?
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure.
MR. DREVNA:  Senator Sweeney, I couldn’t agree more.  As I
said, it shouldn’t be in anyone’s water, whether it’s public, private, or however
you get your water.  And, believe me, the industry does not want it there.  We
do our best to clean these things up as they happen.  Unfortunately, they
happen.  But there are better ways to control it than bans.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Drevna.
MR. DREVNA:  Thank you very much.
SENATOR SMITH:  Let me ask the Ringwood delegation to come
forward.
Councilwoman Joanne Atlas, Mr. Ray Dwyer, and Mr. Sam Close,
if you’d come forward and give your testimony, we’d appreciate it.
C O U N C I L W O M A N   J O A N N E   A T L A S:  Good morning.
I’m Joanne Atlas, Councilwoman from Ringwood.
It’s a pleasure to see all of you again.
The Borough of Ringwood, which as you know is in the heart of
the Highlands, has been hard-hit by MTBE spills, as you will see from the
testimony from the two residents next to me.
14
It’s costing more than $4 million to provide the homes with
municipal water.  And this does not address the cleanup of the groundwater.
Frankly, Senators, we have a mess on our hands.  MTBE is swirling
around less than a mile from the Wanaque Reservoir, which provides two
million New Jersey residents with drinking water.  And only 400 feet away
from one of the spills is our municipal water supply.  We need to stop the
supply of MTBE from continuing to come into Ringwood and other towns.
Recreational lakes are downstream.  Our town is known for its
swimmable lakes, it’s pristine waters, and this severely jeopardizes it and
probably has effected it irrevocably.  It’s a very sad story.
Last year, Ringwood passed a resolution calling for a ban on
MTBE, which was then adopted by the League of Municipalities.  And you
have a copy of that resolution, which I’m a sponsor of.  And in our resolution,
we take exception to ethanol being an alternative.  We still stand by that, and
that is why I cannot embrace this bill.  I also find fault with it because it will
take us until 2008 before it will be enacted.  And in the meantime, MTBE will
continue to be pumped into the aquifers.
I believe we need to stop this.  And I agree with the previous
speaker that we should seek a waiver to the 2 percent and ignore ethanol,
bypass ethanol, and just take our way -- the way it comes to us.
SENATOR SMITH:  Councilwoman, just so I understand, you’re
in favor of an MTBE ban.
COUNCILWOMAN ATLAS:  Absolutely.
SENATOR SMITH:  But you believe the bill is not aggressive
enough.
15
COUNCILWOMAN ATLAS:  It takes too long -- 2008 is too far
in the future.  It should be sooner than that.  It needs to be sooner than that.
This is a crisis.
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.
COUNCILWOMAN ATLAS:  And I also am not in favor of
relying on ethanol as a substitute.  It’s my belief that we don’t need this.  And
I think testimony today, from experts who know more than I do, will show that
it’s not a good route to take.  Ethanol is not a good route to take.  Rather, we
should get the 2 percent waiver and rely on conservation, rely on the fact that
we have cleaner-burning engines.
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay, thank you.
COUNCILWOMAN ATLAS:  So I will pass it on to the residents.
R A Y   D W Y E R:  Good morning.
Can you hear me?
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, sir.
MR. DWYER:  Okay.
My name is Ray Dwyer.  I’m Co-Chairman of the Wild-Oak
Neighborhood Action Group.  I’m going to read from a statement, because I’m
not used to--
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure.
MR. DWYER:  We’re of Ringwood, New Jersey.  For the record,
I live at 14 Wildwood Terrace, in Ringwood.
I’d like to thank the members of the Senate Environment
Committee for giving me this opportunity to speak to you this morning. 
16
Wild-Oak NAG, as we became quickly known throughout
Ringwood, is a group of residents representing 75 homes on Wildwood
Terrace, Oakwood Drive, and Skyline Drive in Ringwood.  Last year we found
that many of our wells were contaminated with MTBE, TBA, and other
contaminants.  We were the second Ringwood neighborhood in as many years
to deal with an MTBE contamination issue.
Wild-Oak NAG’s mission was to bring about a permanent solution
to a contamination issue in a timely manner.  We elected officers and set out
to find the solution as quickly as possible.
I’m going to skip that.  I was just going to introduce Sam Close.
He’s sitting next to me.  He’s the Co-Chair with me. He’s going to speak when
I’m done.
In March 2004, residents of our neighborhood were notified by
the borough that there was a possible contamination of our private wells by a
suspected gasoline leak at a Citgo fueling station up-gradiant from our
neighborhood.  We were informed that a testing firm would coordinate
sampling of our wells and determine if any such contamination had occurred.
As tests were performed and results started to trickle into the
neighborhood, we found that several homes were contaminated with MTBE.
We witnessed elaborate filtering systems, or POETS, point of entry treatment
systems, being installed at some of our neighbors homes.  Imagine seeing a
POET system being installed on your neighbor’s home.  You watch as they tell
you that their water level -- their water has high levels of MTBE -- over 400
parts per billion.  Now imagine that you quite possibly might be drinking the
same water.
17
The following week, another neighbor just next door to your own
home is having a POET installed, as well.  Their MTBE levels also exceed the
State limit.  In fact, MTBE in their well was closer to 500 parts per billion.
Their TBA levels were also well over 1,000 parts per billion.  Yet, you’ve been
told that your levels of MTBE are below the State standard of 70 parts per
billion.  So, therefore, no POET is needed for your home.  Do you drink the
water?  This was our dilemma.
Do we need--  Do we continue to use unfiltered water, knowing
the levels of MTBE found just next door?  In fact, when all the results were in,
nearly 80 percent of our neighborhood showed some levels of MTBE
contamination, 80 percent.  Many of us began to purchase bottled water for
our families, because we were unsure of how safe or unsafe our drinking water
was.
Ringwood is mostly bedrock, which geologists have told me makes
it nearly impossible to determine the path of the contaminant in the aquifer
deep below the surface.
We needed to find a permanent solution.  POET systems were a
temporary fix.  But who would maintain them?  How long would they be
required?  How often would our wells be tested?  And who would do the
testing?  There were many questions and few answers.
We began by doing some research on our own.  We discovered
that MTBE contamination in our neighborhood dates back to 1998 and that,
in some cases, there were similar issues years before that.  We addressed the
mayor and council, contacted our Senators and Assemblymen, and reached out
18
to anyone we felt could help us find a solution.  Senator McNamara and I had
several conversations last fall regarding our neighborhood.
Senator, I’d like to publicly thank you for always returning my
calls, and your assistance and guidance as we set out to find our solution.
Our mayor and council was also very helpful.  They hired an
environmental attorney to help us with our cause.  This attorney worked
diligently on our behalf and aided us in putting together a permanent
remediation plan, which is now underway.
In December, the DEP -- New Jersey DEP announced that a
municipal water line would be installed to all our homes, and we would all be
put on city water.  The project would be funded -- nearly a million dollars for
the water line alone -- using grants from the State cleanup funds.  Governor
Codey signed a funding order on December 9, 2004.  We’re currently in the
process of obtaining permits.  And the borough will then bid it, and the project
will begin.  Right now, we’re still all using our wells.
The borough of Ringwood is temporarily supplying bottled water
to those of us in the neighborhood.  Supply will continue until the water line
is installed.  And as I say, construction is hoped to start late this summer.
Senators, this Committee can take steps to ensure that we,
perhaps, will be the last neighborhood to deal with an MTBE issue.  As you
consider a ban on MTBE throughout the State of New Jersey, we ask that you
consider the effects this additive has had on our neighbors and others like us.
We applaud your consideration of this ban.
As you know, New Jersey has one of the highest actionable levels
of MTBE in the country.  Seventy parts per billion, in many cases, is double,
19
even triple, that of other states.  To my knowledge, some 17 states have
banned or limited the use of MTBE, or have legislation panning -- pending
about the additive.
We hope this Committee recommends--  I’m sorry.  We hope,
through this Committee’s recommendations, New Jersey will join those who
have put the ban in place.  Just last week, as you know was said before,
Congress approved the energy policy which contains certain protections for the
manufacturers and distributors of MTBE.  Measures to remove this language
were defeated.  This protection will place a financial burden of future cleanup
remediation efforts of MTBE contamination fields on the limited public
funding sources and cleanup funds that are already overburdened.  There will
be no possibility of cost recovery for those who produce this contaminant.  We
need to protect our state from future contaminations.
I respectfully ask that you give every consideration to banning
MTBE throughout the State of New Jersey.  For as long as there are
underground gasoline storage tanks, there will be fuel leaks associated with
those tanks.  Each time a gasoline tank leaks, the environment suffers and,
perhaps, another neighborhood like ours will suffer from the contamination
issues we have dealt with for many years.
In closing, I would like to thank the Committee for allowing us to
testify.
I’d like to thank Ringwood Mayor Taule, and the Ringwood
Borough Council, Borough Engineer Ed Haack; and the New Jersey DEP
remediation staff of Commissioner Joe Seebode, Tom Cozzi, and their staff for
20
helping us find a solution and working with us as diligently as they have.  Our
neighborhood has benefited from their work, and we appreciate it.
It was, no doubt, a stressful time for our neighborhood.  Many of
us who did not know of the contaminants in our water--  We can only hope
that our testimony here today will help to prevent other neighborhoods
throughout the state from experiencing the same issues that we have.
Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Mr. Close, was there anything you wanted
to say?
S A M U E L   H.   C L O S E:  Yes.
As Ray introduced me, my name is Sam Close.  I’m also a resident
of Ringwood, also a Co-Chair of Wild-Oak Neighborhood Action Group -- as
Ray indicated -- which was founded to assist in a remediation of the MTBE
contamination of our water supply.  I’m also a member of the Ringwood
Environmental Commission.
I have just a few comments to add to Ray’s.  And I thank you for
the opportunity to do so.
When we first learned of MTBE contamination of our private
wells, it would be an understatement to say there was genuine concern, a lack
of knowledge, and a sense of disbelief.  How could something so harmful be
introduced into our lives and the environment, was a question I was often
asked.
In the months that followed, we quickly learned much about
MTBE, and our concerns were elevated beyond concern to well-founded fears
and anxiety.  As we learned MTBE was linked to a wide range of illnesses,
21
including respiratory and neurological impairment, and may be linked to
cancer, we began to think in more personal terms.  Illnesses we may have gone
through, or those our children have endured--  We have seen our neighbors
suffer illnesses, and some died as a result.  We know of 14 neighbors in our
MTBE contamination zone who have died of cancer or are currently fighting
this disease.  We know of young children with glaucoma, which is unheard of
in people their age.  We know of adults with skin lesions that cannot be
treated.  The underlying questions remain unanswered.  Are they linked to
MTBE?  Will, one day, we, our children, or another neighbor experience a
devastating illness that will also one day be linked to MTBE?  The questions
are rhetorical.  We don’t have the answer.  We do know that we continue to
live with this fear and anxiety and suspicion, as do our children, for the bottled
water we now rely upon is our daily reminder.  There is poison in our well
water.  Don’t drink it.
We have also witnessed the despair of our neighbors when they
learned MTBE and its byproduct, TBA, had contaminated their private wells.
We have seen elaborate water filtration systems installed, diminishing living
space and detracting from the value of our homes.  We have seen our entire
neighborhood stigmatized by MTBE contamination, and witnessed real estate
closings fall apart, as well.  We have a stamp on our collective neighborhood
that reads, “Don’t buy a home here.  The water is poisoned, causing personal
hardship and financial loss to our residents.”
We are extremely grateful to our community leaders and the New
Jersey Department of Environmental Protection for moving swiftly with the
support and funding to resolve our crisis for the future.  Yet we remain fearful
22
of the damage that may have already been done to our health and to our
environment.  The cleanup of the environment has yet to be addressed, and
the nature of the contamination creates the very real possibility that yet
another section of our community may one day be affected.
We also know we are not alone in our plight.  There are countless
cases of MTBE contamination nationwide and other neighborhoods in crisis,
many right here in New Jersey.  There are nearly 200 families in our
community alone that are undergoing remediation efforts, as a result of MTBE
contamination in two separate occasions just in the past five years.  Despite
increasing knowledge of MTBE’s harmful, toxic properties, and the added
characteristic as a possible carcinogen, it is still used as an additive.  For as long
as MTBE continues to be used, and used for a noble cause to be sure, it’s
injuring us and others in the process and destroying our environment.  We also
know that there may be viable alternatives to MTBE presently being
considered.  But these need to be fully assessed for their long-term impact
before they are introduced.
Pending legislation is a step forward.  Within this legislation,
MTBE’s harmful properties are well-documented.  This additive, this poison,
needs to be banned without delay.  To this end, I ask this Senate leadership to
take a visionary step forward.  In reference to pending legislative bill S-2018,
banning the sale of gasoline containing MTBE beginning January 1, 2008, I
call on the New Jersey State Senate leadership to seek immediate exemption
from the Federal Clean Air Act Amendment of 1990 and prohibit the sale of
gasoline containing MTBE immediately, with full phase-out by January 1,
2006.  New Jersey can provide leadership to the nation in adopting this
23
amendment and in passing this legislation.  And as we explore options, let’s be
certain the alternative will not only ensure clean air, but be people- and
environmentally friendly.
I strongly urge Senate leadership to move forward without delay.
While significant damage has already been done, let’s take the corrective steps
today to ensure the health and safety of the generations that follow and
preserve the purity of our water, one of our most valuable natural resources.
In closing, I recently read, and I quote, “The proper function of
government is to do for the people those things that have to be done, but
cannot be done, or done as well by an individual.”  As an individual, I cannot
enact legislation to ban this chemical from our lives, nor protect the
generations that follow.  I cannot push through my proposed amendment to
this critical legislation as well.  But I call on you today, as leaders who can, to
take the appropriate action to enact this vital legislation, and to do so without
untimely delay.
Thank you very much.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Close, Mr. Dwyer,
Councilwoman Atlas.  We appreciate your testimony.
COUNCILWOMAN ATLAS:  Thank you very much.
SENATOR SMITH:  Mr. Jeffrey Michaels, representing Valero
Energy, indicated that Valero is opposed to the bill, but he had no desire to
speak on the issue this morning.
Mr. Barry Grossman, Oxybusters.  Mr. Grossman -- in favor of the
bill.
24
B A R R Y   G R O S S M A N:  It’s ironic that Oxybusters started in New
Jersey, and yet it is one of the only states in the nation, so far, not to have
taken any action to ban MTBE.  Even New York and Connecticut have
eliminated it from their gasoline supply.
It is also ironic that Rutgers University scientists conducted studies
and concluded five years ago that it causes serious problems.
New Jersey, you have failed us.
SENATOR SMITH:  Have a nice day, Mr. Grossman.
Mr. Tittel, opposed to the bill -- from the Sierra Club.
SENATOR ADLER:  No time for questions for--
SENATOR SMITH:  I guess not.  (laughter)
J E F F   T I T T E L:  Well, that’s a good thing, I guess.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  More time for Jeff.
MR. TITTEL:  We oppose the bill in its current form, and it’s not
because we support MTBE.  We think that MTBE should be removed.
I just wanted to give a little history on how we got MTBE, so you
understand one of the reasons that oxygenates are no longer necessary.
Back in 1990, when the Clean Air Act was passed, and it required
the oxygenate mandate, most of the vehicles in the United States were
carbureted.  And at that time, what happened was, there was a fairly high level
-- because of combustion with carburetors -- of carbon monoxide.  So
oxygenates were added to reduce the levels of carbon monoxide.  And that’s
the purpose of either MTBE or ethanol.
But since that time the technology has changed.  And most cars
today are fuel-injected.  And fuel injectors have an oxygen sensor, and they
25
actually inject more oxygen, if you keep it fairly balanced through the
computer, into the gasoline so it burns cleaner.  And what we’ve seen, because
of fuel injectors and reformulated gasoline -- a major drop in carbon monoxide
in our tailpipe emissions.
And so the reason that we put oxygenates, in the first place, into
automobiles is no longer there.  And we believe that the 2 percent oxygen
requirement should be repealed, that it’s no longer necessary, and, in fact, it’s
causing more damage than it causes good.  And that’s where we would like to
see New Jersey take it’s position -- on not only banning MTBE and going for
the waiver, but pushing for the repeal of the 2 percent requirement.  Because
it’s not -- it’s something that’s just -- it’s an unnecessary regulation at this point
that actually can hurt the environment, both because of MTBE’s impact on
water quality--  And we believe that the Senate Environment Committee
should hold hearings some time in the future, because I think New Jersey’s
standard of 70 parts per billion is way to high.  And other states have dropped
it to between eight and 10 parts per billion.  And I think we should look at why
New Jersey isn’t being more aggressive in trying to set strict standards for
MTBE in our groundwater.  MTBE was first found in groundwater in New
Jersey in Rockaway, by a Shell gas station.
I also want to talk a little bit about -- being someone who is from
Ringwood.  My address is still 167 Snakeden Road, in Ringwood.  And one of
the reasons that this community along Skyline Drive has this problem is
because of bad planning.  I was involved in the community at the time when
we opposed that gas station.  And the citizens of that neighborhood actually
sued to prevent it, because they were afraid of groundwater contamination.
26
And at the time, the town gave it a use variance to build it next -- to put it next
to a trout stream.  And these were the consequences that the citizens, at that
time who objected to that gas station, now have to live with.  So it’s a good
example of what happens when you don’t plan properly.
Going on to ethanol, and why we don’t support this bill in its
current form.  It’s that the Sierra Club -- and this is a national policy of the
Sierra Club -- believes that ethanol is not a proper replacement.  And, in fact,
we should get rid of oxygenates all together.  Ethanol, itself, uses more energy
to create than you get from it, because of having to plant the crops, water the
crops, fertilize them, tender the crops, harvest, to ship it to market, and then
produce ethanol.  And, in fact, you get air pollution impacts because of
tractors, trucks, chemical plants, so on and so forth.
The bigger issue for us is not just that, it’s that ethanol evaporates
at a very low temperature.  Ninety degrees in your gas tank causes evaporative
emissions.  And so what happens is that even on a warm, Spring day like
yesterday, where it’s 70, your gas tank -- especially if you’re in traffic -- will hit
that level.  And your volatile organic compounds will go up because of
evaporation, as will ground level ozone.
And the concern that we have is that ethanol being used in warmer
months will create a whole new air quality problem for New Jersey.  New Jersey
is already out of compliance for the eight-hour ozone level.  In fact, I think
every county in New Jersey is out of compliance.  Our concern is that it will
put New Jersey further out of compliance, as what it’s doing to California.
And that, in turn, could actually lead to a loss in highway dollars.
27
So, here again, we’ve got to--  This is something I think Senator
McNamara would appreciate.  Here we have one agency of government trying
to force oxygenates on us.  The only alternative is ethanol, which now creates
another problem for ozone, which causes another mandate and a heavy hand
on this side.  And I think that really is the problem.  We really need to get rid
of the use of oxygenates, because ethanol is not a proper alternative because
of its other environmental problems.
The other point that I wanted to make is that the Sierra Club --
and this gets back to the MTBE issue -- did a study about a week or so -- a
little over a week ago.  And it showed that New Jersey has the eighth worst
record in the nation in removing underground storage tanks.  We are--  We
still have over 3,845 tanks -- mostly fuel tanks -- that are still in the ground,
that are leaking and causing problems.  And yet we haven’t had the leadership
to remove those tanks.  We’re the eighth worst.  We’re tied with South
Carolina. 
And I think that’s another issue that the Senate Environment
Committee should also look at.  Because why are we falling so far behind?
Why do we have so many tanks still in the ground?  And what’s the impact
that it’s having to the environment, especially when we have programs to get
rid of them?
Again, I just wanted to, sort of, end that we would support this
legislation to ban MTBE if we would include seeking a waiver and also putting
in language to try to remove the 2 percent oxygenate requirement.  Because we
think it’s an unnecessary additive at this time.
And just one other point is that, every year, New Jersey and
Trenton seems to get stranger and stranger.  Last year was a very bizarre year.
28
This year, we’ve had a whale come up the Delaware.  And now I’m agreeing
with Hal Bozarth.  So it’s definitely a weird year.  (laughter)
SENATOR SMITH:  Our understanding of reality is shaken at this
point.
MR. TITTEL:  I think the sky just turned pink.
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Adler.
SENATOR ADLER:  Same question I asked Mr. Drevna.  Do you
have a sense, Jeff, of the likelihood of an EPA waiver of this 2 percent
requirement for New Jersey, or if there are any other states that have already
been seeking it?
MR. TITTEL:  I think it may take a lawsuit, to fall in with
California to do it.  But I also think it can take push by a congressional
delegation.  I think that’s been--  One of the problems has been--  Archer
Daniels Midland and its lobbying powers in Washington should try to block
the repeal of the 2 percent oxygenate waiver.  And I think that part of New
Jersey going on record, calling for the repeal of the 2 percent, as well as pushing
for a ban of MTBE and asking for the waiver, could help put more pressure to
help get that repeal done.  So I think it’s part of the process that we need to be
part of.
SENATOR ADLER:  What would happen to a state like New
Jersey if it just ignored the 2 percent requirement and just sold non-oxygenated
gasoline?
MR. TITTEL:  EPA might come down on us.  On the other hand,
I’m not really sure.  I’m assuming EPA would come forward and try to go after
New Jersey for doing that.
29
And by the way, ethanol -- even if you get rid of the oxygenate
requirement, ethanol could still be used as an octane booster for the higher-
grade gasolines.  It’s not like I’m saying it has no -- it has absolutely no impact
anywhere.  But it can be used for, like, premium.
Again, going back to your question, I think that--  I don’t know
what would happen.  And maybe it’s something we should consider doing.  But
you’d have to ask the oil industry if they’re willing to take that chance.
SENATOR ADLER:  Can I ask one more question?
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure.
SENATOR ADLER:  Let’s assume that we can’t get a waiver of the
2 percent requirement.  From the Sierra Club’s position, what’s better,
environmentally, for New Jersey for the next generation, MTBE or ethanol, if
that’s our only choice -- one or the other?  Assuming that’s our choice, what’s
better for the environment?
MR. TITTEL:  Unfortunately, I think it puts us in a--  It’s the old
patent line of, if you’re caught between the Russians and Germans, fire in both
directions.  I think it puts us in sort of a Sophie’s choice, because we’re going
to be--
SENATOR ADLER:  You’re mixing your metaphors.  (laughter)
MR. TITTEL:  I know.  I think it puts us in an untenable position,
because we’re trading negative air quality benefits for negative water quality
impacts.
SENATOR ADLER:  So you’re answer to me would be?
MR. TITTEL:  I have to think if we can’t get the waiver,
unfortunately, probably keep the MTBE.  And the reason is, because you’re
30
trading, again, water quality--  But then what do you say to a kid with asthma,
who has high levels of ground ozone in the area because of ethanol, and that
kid has an asthma attack.  I think it puts us in a really bad position.  We’re
trading one group of people being impacted for another group.
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Sweeney.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  You would trade ethanol for MTBE.  You
would want MTBE if you had no choice.
MR. TITTEL:  I think you’re, again--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  If there were no option, as Senator Adler
said -- we had no option.  We can’t get the waiver--
MR. TITTEL:  I think we’ve got to push for it.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  --knowing what it’s doing to the water--
MR. TITTEL:  And I live on a--  I have a well.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  I know.  You gave me your address.  I
thought you were inviting me.  (laughter)  I thought we’d have a picnic.
MR. TITTEL:  You can come up any time.  I’ll take you on a hike
in the Highlands.  I’ll come down to West Deptford for lunch, and I’ll take you
up there for a hike.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Well, you know where I’m at.  Dave
knows.  They’ve knocked on my door.
SENATOR ADLER:  A couple times.  (laughter)
MR. TITTEL:  Unfortunately, I think that, again, I don’t like
MTBE.  I want it banned, but I can’t take the position of supporting ethanol.
It’s a national policy of the Sierra Club.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your testimony.
31
I lost the slip on the representative of ExxonMobil.  Would you
come forward, or did you not want to?
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER FROM AUDIENCE:  Supporting the
bill, not making a statement.
SENATOR SMITH:  Supporting the bill.
All right, our next witness is George Cruzan, ToxWorks for
Lyondell.
G E O R G E   C R U Z A N,   Ph.D.:  I have printed copies, if you want. 
Thank you, Chairman Smith.
I am George Cruzan.  I’m a board certified toxicologist.  For the
last 10 years, I have owned ToxWorks, which is a toxicology consulting firm
located in New Jersey.  For 15 years prior to that, I studied the toxicology of
petroleum streams and products, including gasoline in the toxicology
department of Mobil Oil, located in Princeton, New Jersey.  So I have a pretty
good understanding of gasoline toxicity and additives, etc.
My company provides consulting to a wide range of companies
currently, including some of which are involved in petroleum refining and
result in chemical production.  One of those clients is Lyondell Chemical, for
which I prepared this review.
My comments are related to the health effects of MTBE.  Despite
the comments from the people from Ringwood -- and I understand their
concerns about having MTBE in their well -- there is no association of skin
lesions with MTBE.  There is no association with the other diseases that were
mentioned.
32
Now, at very high doses in animal experiments, MTBE did cause
increased tumors in rats and in mice.  Those are exactly the same kinds of
tumors and in the same organs as unleaded gasoline without MTBE in it.  So
if you think MTBE should be banned because it’s a carcinogen, and you follow
the same logic, you have to ban gasoline, because it causes the exact same
things that MTBE does.  There is no difference.  And, in fact, unleaded
gasoline without MTBE is more potent than MTBE in those animal studies.
Further, there are strong experimental evidence for both MTBE
and unleaded gasoline -- that the things that -- the biochemical changes that
happened in the rats and mice to cause those tumors do not happen in
humans.  And that’s why EPA has not classified either unleaded gasoline or
MTBE as a carcinogen.
In fact, although California has banned MTBE, their official board
for labeling carcinogens under Prop 65 reviewed all the MTBE data and
decided that MTBE should not be classified as a carcinogen in California.  The
National Toxicology Program, in their report on carcinogens, reviewed it and
concluded it is not a carcinogen.  The International Agency for Research on
Cancer reviewed it and concluded that it is not a carcinogen.
So you can always find something to support a position that you
want.  And some people have looked at the animal studies and said, “We ought
to ban it, because it’s a carcinogen.”
Secondly, there are components in gasoline that are known
carcinogens.  Apart from the kidney tumors that are seen in rats, benzene is a
component of gasoline.  Benzene is classified by every agency as a known
carcinogen.  If you want to protect people from benzene from gasoline spills,
33
then you ought to have some sentinel chemical in there that will tell you when
you have a gasoline and, therefore, a benzene spill.
I hear comments here today about MTBE leaks, or MTBE spills.
There is no such thing as an MTBE spill or an MTBE leak.  And you need to
be clear about that.  There are gasoline spills and gasoline leaks.  And when
that gasoline contains MTBE, then MTBE gets into the groundwater.  As the
groundwater moves, it carries MTBE, but it also carries all of those other
hydrocarbons from gasoline along with it.  It happens that MTBE travels a
little bit faster than the rest.  So when someone finds MTBE in their well,
that’s an indication that something more hazardous is following right along
behind.  If MTBE isn’t there, people are going to end up with benzene and
other chemicals in their wells, and they’re not even going to know it, because
there’s no sentinel chemical coming ahead of it.
EPA has reviewed all of the data on MTBE, and they have set what
they consider safe levels.  For exposure of one to 10 days, EPA considers 1,000
micrograms per liter in the drinking water as a safe level.  I grant you, no one
would ever drink water with 1,000 micrograms per liter in it.  But based on the
health effects for a short-term exposure, 1,000 micrograms per liter is a safe
level over a short term.
For a time period of continuous exposure of about seven years,
EPA says 350 micrograms is a safe level.  And for lifetime exposure, EPA says
that 70 micrograms per liter is a safe level.  Now, we all know that odor occurs
at -- taste and odor effects occur at a lower level.  And so that taste and odor
should protect people from health effects from MTBE.  So the issue with
MTBE is not a health effects issue.
34
Furthermore, trading for ethanol does not really solve the health
effects problem.  Because, if anything, ethanol is more toxic and more
carcinogenic than MTBE.  Ethanol is classified by California as a known
human carcinogen; it’s classified by the National Toxicology Program as a
known human carcinogen; it’s classified by IARC, the International Agency for
Research on Cancer, as a known carcinogen.  There is no doubt that ethanol
does, in fact, cause cancer in humans.  And it’s associated with a large number
of different types of cancer, fairly clearly documented.
In fact, in a recent review, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
lists ethanol as the second leading cause of preventable deaths in the U.S.  The
CDC estimates that ethanol consumption resulted in 85,000 preventable
deaths in 2000.  No deaths have been associated, by the CDC or any other
agency, with MTBE exposure.
So, in conclusion, MTBE has been effective at reducing air
pollution.  We ought not have exposures to it.  And we ought to do things to
prevent gasoline tanks from leaking.  One of the previous comments was that
we have undergound tanks and undergound tanks will always leak.  Well, we
ought to solve that problem.  We shouldn’t have leaking, undergound tanks.
SENATOR SMITH:  I have to ask a question, and that is, the
85,000 preventable deaths -- you’re not talking about trace amounts of ethanol
doing this.  You’re talking about people overdoing their scotch and soda --
cirrhosis of the liver, things like this?
DR. CRUZAN:  Yes, largely.
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t know that you want to make that
comparison.
35
DR. CRUZAN:  Okay.
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t know that they’re analogous.
DR. CRUZAN:  Well, there are--  MTBE is used, medically, to
treat gallstones, to dissolve gallstones.  There are no reported deaths from that.
SENATOR SMITH:  Right, but the scotch and soda -- not that I’m
encouraging it -- is a voluntary act.  People decide they want to have their
cocktail before dinner, or whatever, as opposed to MTBE ingestion, which is
not a voluntary act.
DR. CRUZAN:  I agree that there’s a difference between a
voluntary and an involuntary.
SENATOR SMITH:  I’m just saying, for future testimony, I
wouldn’t make that comparison.  I don’t think that works.
SENATOR McNAMARA:  You wouldn’t order scotch and water.
(laughter)
SENATOR ADLER:  Bob.
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator.
SENATOR ADLER:  Sir, do you know if the CDC has quantified
the number of ethanol related deaths that are not -- as the Chairman described
-- somehow alcohol related, but are exposure to ethanol in an involuntary
manner?
DR. CRUZAN:  No, they have not.
SENATOR ADLER:  Do you know of any other study that can
quantify that figure for us?
DR. CRUZAN:  No, no.
36
SENATOR ADLER:  Do you know if it’s more than zero?  Is it
possible we’re talking about zero deaths from MTBE exposure and zero deaths
from ethanol as a gasoline additive?  Is that possible?
DR. CRUZAN:  That’s possible.
SENATOR ADLER:  Okay, thanks.
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Sweeney.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  I’m just curious why you would even give
us something like that.  Can you explain that to me?  To me, personally, that’s
insulting to throw that number and throw that information out.  As you’re
speaking as an expert witness, to mix the message that it’s ethanol--
Senator, I have never ordered an MTBE and soda in my life.
SENATOR SMITH:  No cocktail.
Let’s not pick on our witnesses either.  I mean, we want people to
come forward and--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  I’m sorry.  You’re right.
I apologize.
SENATOR SMITH:  We appreciate--
DR. CRUZAN:  Well, the concern that I have is, people want to
say MTBE is terrible, and ethanol is perfectly fine.  The issue is, if you want
to look at actual, real health effects from the two chemicals that we know
about, there are clearly demonstrated health effects from ethanol.  There are
no clearly demonstrated health effects from MTBE.
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  We appreciate your testimony.
Thank you very much.
37
For the record, Mike -- and I can’t read the last name -- from the
League of Municipalities--
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER FROM AUDIENCE:  Mike Cerra.
SENATOR SMITH:  Mike Cerra wanted the League’s position on
record, which is they’re in favor of the bill.  No testimony is needed.
Our next witness is John Kneiss, from the Clean Transportation
Advisory Council, opposed to the bill.
Mr. Kneiss.
J O H N   K N E I S S:  Thank you, Chairman Smith and Vice Chairman
Sweeney.  I appreciate this opportunity to come and testify before the
Committee.
My name is John Kneiss.  I’m the Executive Director of the Clean
Transportation Advisory Council, which is dedicated to providing timely and
accurate technical information and data to policy makers on clean fuel
developments and clean transportation strategies.
I’ve submitted some written testimony to the Committee.  I urge
you to carefully look at that.  And I’ll pull some comments out of it.
We would be in opposition--  We are in opposition to the passage
of this bill until -- and believe that -- the full consequences and impacts that
will result from a significant modification of gasoline use in the State of New
Jersey are fully understood, to avoid potential disruptions to supplies, increases
in costs, and degradation to air quality.  We think it would be premature to
pass this bill without having that knowledge before the State.
As I noted, we’re concerned with fuel supply, flexibility in options
that can constrict the fuel supply by as much as 10 percent.  Using the Energy
38
Information Administration and other studies that have been done, the
impacts to costs that could spike gasoline in the short-term and maintain
higher prices in the long-term--  It would likely result in increased vehicles
emissions, making it harder for the State to meet air quality standards.  It can
impact other emissions, such as air toxics emissions that are very important in
properties of the fuel.  And it could increase State resources -- to enforce it’s
own State fuels type of program.
I do want to note that you raised the comment about -- Senator
Adler -- about what would happen if you just ignored the oxygen standard.
There would be issues in transportation conformity in the state, and you would
be at risk of losing, literally, hundreds of millions of dollars in Federal State
highway -- or highway funding.  So you want to be sure that you fully
understand that.
Let me point out a couple of things.  On the fuel side--  On the
pricing side -- we looked at the AAA and the OPIS -- OPIS is the Oil Pricing
Information Service -- this past Monday, which is retail pricing averages for
various states -- for all the states, actually.  And even after accounting for the
rise in crude costs, the different state excise taxes that exist, the Federal taxes,
and of course using a benchmark in the New York Harbor baseline pricing,
New York and Connecticut drivers are currently paying between $.08 and $.15
per gallon more than New Jersey consumers.  That’s after we equalized those
other factors.  According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal
Highway Administration data for New Jersey, with demand of about 12.3
million gallons per day, passing this bill and then having to go and reformulate
your fuel to using fuel ethanol would -- if there’s a comparable impact to what’s
39
occurred in New York and Connecticut, it would be an increased cost to the
state’s motorists of as much as $350 million to a staggering $674 million each
year.
On the air quality side, the current RFG, reformulated gasoline
formulation, is reduce summertime mobile source emissions.
SENATOR SMITH:  Mr. Kneiss, if we can interrupt you for one
second, just because you made a very interesting point.  Senator Adler had a
question.
MR. KNEISS:  Sure.
SENATOR ADLER:  I’m sorry to interrupt your testimony.
Before you get off that topic, can you tell me what the equalized
price differential per gallon was -- New Jersey versus Connecticut and New
York -- five years ago?
MR. KNEISS:  I did not look at five years ago.
SENATOR ADLER:  It would be helpful if you could let us know.
I’m curious to know if New Jersey always is $.08 to $.15 lower than
Connecticut and New York State, or whether there’s a direct causal connection
between the MTBE ban.  If there’s a way you can show me the causal
connection, that would be helpful to me, I think.  Because my sense is, it’s
always been a lot cheaper in New Jersey than in the surrounding states.  And
maybe that was true before the MTBE--
MR. KNEISS:  Well, there may be some factors, because there is
a fairly substantial in-state refining that may cause some increased
competition, certainly.
40
SENATOR ADLER:  If you could maybe get back to me on that,
or get back through the Chairman.
MR. KNEISS:  I will do that.
SENATOR SMITH:  Right, and I’ll share that information.
Senator Sweeney.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Along with what you just stated about in-
state refining capabilities, that would attribute to cheaper prices, wouldn’t it?
MR. KNEISS:  I think there is probably some increased
competition that occurs.  However, the sourcing of fuel into New York is
multiple, between the imports--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  But having so much fuel available in the
state--  There’s a cost associated with transportation and fuel, correct?
MR. KNEISS:  There is.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  So that could attribute to a difference,
also.
MR. KNEISS:  That could, yes.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Thank you, sir.
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator, did you have a question?
SENATOR McNAMARA:  I just, kind of, ask the same question
as Senator Adler.  And I do believe -- no question in my mind -- that
differential exists 10 years ago, and will exist 10 years from now.  I don’t think
it is related at all.
SENATOR SMITH:  No problem.
Mr. Kneiss, we’ve had conflicting testimony on the issue of the
cost of gasoline with MTBE in it, versus the cost of gasoline with ethanol in it.
41
If you remember the first gentleman that testified, who was with an
environmental group in New York, made the point that the spot price for
MTBE was half that of ethanol, so, therefore, the price would be less.  I
thought I heard in your testimony that the position of your group is that if
ethanol is chosen, the price of gasoline will go up.
MR. KNEISS:  I think what I was trying to point out is that after,
again, examining these other factors such as differences in taxes, etc., the rise
in crude costs that’s occurred was merely a snapshot picture of what’s the
current situation.  They are paying higher prices.  I will go back and examine
it, historically, to see whether there has been an increase over time.
SENATOR SMITH:  Related to ethanol.
MR. KNEISS:  Yes.  Let me comment--  I’d like to comment about
the fact that, yes, on a spot basis, or from a pure standpoint of pure ethanol
that’s produced at Midwest facilities, or pure MTBE that’s produced at
petrochemical facilities and refineries--  We do not burn either of those as pure
products in our cars.
SENATOR SMITH:  We understand that.
MR. KNEISS:  They’re blended into gasoline.  When you use fuel
ethanol, you’re required to reformulate your base gasoline in different ways,
make it less volatile and remove various light components out of the fuel to
accommodate the ethanol that goes in.
Now, those changes in the fuel -- in the base fuel for a fuel ethanol,
obviously, are increased capital costs.  You also have storage, transportation,
segregation of those products.  All of those add to the cost that are ultimately
42
passed on to the consumer.  It’s called fungibility, and I think you know what
that phrase means.
SENATOR SMITH:  Anything further, sir?
MR. KNEISS:  Yes, I have a couple more points, very quickly, I’d
like to--
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Sweeney, you wanted to get one
more question--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  One quick question:  The last gentleman,
basically, let us know who he represented.  The group that you’re representing
-- who’s funding this group?
MR. KNEISS:  This is a new initiative.  We do get funding from
some publishers, Hard Energy Publishing and some other groups.  Last year,
before I came in full-time, I know that there were some petrochemical firms:
Methanax, Lyondell funded last year, but not this year.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  But Lyondell was one of your supporters.
MR. KNEISS:  Last year, yes.  Before I became involved with this.
We’re expanding our membership.  We’re looking at other membership bases.
And I’m working, right now, with a--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Are there any other manufacturers of
ethanol -- I mean of MTBE, or other corporations that are off-shoots -- that
someone that would supply, to the people, that MTBE?
MR. KNEISS:  No.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  No.
MR. KNEISS:  Not right now.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Okay.
43
MR. KNEISS:  Okay.
I do want to point out, the current formulation on reformulate, for
RFG in the state--  VOC reductions of 28 percent over baseline conventional
fuel; air toxics, 33 percent; nitrous oxides, 9 percent.  And that’s northern
Virginia -- similar in Trenton.  Those are substantial benefits for improving air
quality.
We’ve heard about the permeability issue with the state of
California studying it.  Looking at reformulation of the fuel in this state, with
this New Jersey State Implementation Plan, and it’s rate of progress for
continually reducing emissions to meet the National Air Quality Standards--
A similar permeation effect, if we assume that, could increase emissions by
about 11.7 tons per day in the northern New Jersey non-attainment area.  So
I think the State Department of Environmental Protection has to closely
examine what the impacts would be.
We heard about the tank issue.  And I’m sure others will talk
about that.  I’m not going to address that.  I’m not an expert on that.
So I think the recommendations I can make about this are that the
New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection needs to carefully
analyze the emissions impact to ensure that there’s no backsliding on the
actual achievement that’s occurred in the State of New Jersey.  I think the
Legislature should ensure that there are sufficient resources available to the
DEP for the underground gasoline storage tank inspections, and enforcement
to ensure that the standards that became finalized in December, 1998 are
indeed being followed, and that you do have the standards available to protect
groundwater and water resources.
44
And I think one of the things is a petition to the Federal
government for the use of the LUST Funds that currently have about a $2
billion surplus -- Federal level -- to be able to use those for gasoline cleanups
that also include MTBE and all the other constituents.
And I certainly think that the basic position is that you have no
bans, no mandates, and allow marketplaces to work at looking at solutions for
improving air quality and reducing emissions.
Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Kneiss.
Our next witness is Mr. Bliss Baker, who’s identified himself as an
ethanol producer.
Mr. Baker.
B L I S S   B A K E R:  Thank you very much, Mr. Chair.
And thank you to the Committee for the opportunity to speak to
you today.
It’s a full house, so I will keep my remarks fairly brief.  If I had a
high-priced lobbyist with me today, he or she would probably be advising me
to stick to the script.  But after hearing some testimony this morning, I don’t
think I can do that.
I came here today to address a very simple issue.  As an ethanol
producer, the issue is supply.  And I wanted to make a very simple comment
and statement that I have been following the ethanol industry and MTBE
debate for some time now.  And the ethanol industry has repeatedly responded
to new demand in the marketplace.  And that evidence is irrefutable.  Today,
with the prices the way they are, we’re not necessarily smiling, but we’re awash
45
in ethanol today.  And if the MTBE ban were to be implemented in New
Jersey, I have no doubt that the ethanol industry would respond as they have
in every other jurisdiction.  And as a company that makes alcohol -- ethanol in
beverage and industrial alcohol, I can tell you that we certainly are interested
in the Northeast.  And our company, as well as many others, are watching this
closely.  And the industry will respond with supply.  So I suspected that issue
may come up today, and that’s why we’re here today. 
But there’s another issue--  And if you’ll humor me for a minute,
I’ll stray from my script.  An issue that has not been raised today, that I feel
very strongly about -- and people in our industry feel very strongly about -- and
that’s the issue of energy supply -- security of energy in North America.  And
this issue has not come up yet, but I believe this issue supersedes all other
issues.  And, as legislators, if you decide that it is in the interest of national
security and for energy supply purposes to ban MTBE, then I think it is the
right thing to do.
In 1989, when I was doing my post-graduate studies at the
London School of Economics under the infamous professor Hans Strauss, he
started off his class by predicting that the end of cheap oil was on the way.
This was at a time when the oil was at a rock-bottom pricing.  And he started
off by making what I thought was a statement, back then, that seemed
ridiculous at the time -- but he said to all the students that, “We will never run
out of oil -- never, in anybody’s lifetime.  There’s lots of oil.”  And he’s right.
The issue was, at what price.  We will not run out of oil.  And he’s still right.
He predicted the end of cheap oil 16 years ago.  And two years ago, the
46
gentleman who President Bush was holding hands with yesterday predicted --
on the front page of The Economist magazine, the end of cheap oil.
SENATOR SMITH:  Let me interrupt you for one second.
MR. BAKER:  Yes.
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Adler, you had a question.
SENATOR ADLER:  Thank you, Chairman.
I’m sorry to interrupt your testimony -- your exciting, off-the-
script testimony -- but I want to make sure I understood what you were saying.
You believe it’s a national security issue that we use MTBE as an additive for
gasoline.
MR. BAKER:  I am saying whatever encourages the development
of alternatives to gasoline is in the national security interest.
SENATOR ADLER:  Do you believe if we replace ethanol for
MTBE that we’re going to reduce our demand for foreign oil and, therefore,
free ourselves to have a foreign policy that’s less dependent upon friendliness
to Arab and OPEC nations that produce oil?
MR. BAKER:  Absolutely.  We’ve expanded our refining capacity
in this country, and in North America, by two-and-a-half, three billion liters by
growing ethanol.
SENATOR ADLER:  I don’t mean to--  I don’t understand the
chemistry of it, maybe.  Will we be using less gasoline if we add ethanol to
gasoline, as opposed to the gas and consumption we currently have with MTBE
as our New Jersey additive?
MR. BAKER:  By growing renewable fuels, we are--
SENATOR ADLER:  No, no, no.  Stick with my question.
47
MR. BAKER:  Yes, okay.  Go ahead again.
SENATOR ADLER:  Will we be using less gasoline in New Jersey
if we substitute ethanol for MTBE?
MR. BAKER:  We will be using a renewable fuel.
SENATOR ADLER:  I understand that.  The ethanol portion is
renewable.
Will we be using less gasoline, is my question?
MR. BAKER:  Yes.
SENATOR ADLER:  How?  I’m losing the chemistry of this.  I
don’t get that.
SENATOR SMITH:  Let me try and make it--  As I understand it,
ethanol, by itself, is -- can be used as a fuel.  It is an organic chemical that has
high energy content that can be combusted.  So I think his point is, the more
ethanol you put in -- the more ethanol that’s available for consumption as a
fuel, the less gasoline you’re going to need, because you’re using more and
more ethanol and, theoretically, less and less oil.
I think that’s what your point was.
MR. BAKER:  Yes.
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s not a chemistry issue.  It’s a matter of
quantity and volume.  He’s saying, on a gallon of gasoline, if a third of the
gallon was ethanol--
SENATOR ADLER:  So not with current engines, but with some
newly developed engine, it would just use ethanol.
48
SENATOR SMITH:  No, not even a new engine.  He’s saying, if
you use more ethanol--  In a gallon of gasoline, if a third of the gallon was
ethanol, then you have one-third less gasoline.
MR. BAKER:  You’re displacing a third of the gallon of gasoline.
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  That’s what I understand your point
is.
MR. BAKER:  Right.
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t know if it’s accurate, but that’s what
I understand your point to be.
MR. BAKER:  That’s what I’m saying.
SENATOR ADLER:  That was my question.  I don’t understand.
But if you’re saying it’s accurate, I’ll accept it until someone proves you wrong.
MR. BAKER:  The main point I wanted to make was that the
ethanol industry has responded repeatedly to new demand.  And I’m not here
to take sides on the MTBE ban.  If you decide, as legislators, to ban MTBE,
there will be, naturally, if you don’t get rid of the waiver -- or you don’t get an
oxygen waiver, there will be a new demand for ethanol.  It stands to reason.
What I’m saying is, there are people out there saying that the ethanol industry
cannot respond and there’s not enough ethanol.  I’m here to say, as an ethanol
producer, that there is plenty of ethanol today.  And with 15 plants under
construction, and 84 operating plants in the United States, there’s plenty of
ethanol.
SENATOR SMITH:  Would you continue?
MR. BAKER:  No, that was my closing remark.
SENATOR SMITH:  That’s it?
49
Any other questions for Mr. Baker?  (no response)
If not, thank you, Mr. Baker.
And our next witness is Mr. Gary Grinstead, who is ENSR,
representing Lyondell Chemical.
Mr. Grinstead, what’s an ENSR?
G A R Y   G R I N S T E A D:  ENSR--  We’re an environmental consulting
company.  We have a large officer over in Piscataway.
I’ve never been asked that before.
SENATOR SMITH:  Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding.  (laughter)
SENATOR SWEENEY:  You should have put Piscataway on the
slip.  You would have been first.
MR. GRINSTEAD:  It actually used to stand for something, but
I don’t know what it stands for anymore.  So it’s just ENSR.
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.
MR. GRINSTEAD:  Okay.  That’s my introduction.  I’m an
environmental consultant with ENSR.  We have an office in Piscataway.  I am
here representing Lyondell Chemical.
I am a geologist.  I’m an environmental scientist.  I have a master’s
degree in geology.  My expertise is in soil and groundwater studies and
remediation.  I’ve been working in the leaking, underground storage tank arena
for the past 20 years.  And I’m here today to discuss some of the
physiochemical issues associated with MTBE.
I am representing opposition to this bill.  And I think the short
story of my opposition is that I think the bill is misdirected.  And it was
mentioned earlier--  I think the problem that we should be dealing with, and
50
the problem that needs to be focused on, is leaking underground storage tank
systems, not one of the components of gasoline, which MTBE is.  MTBE is a
single component of gasoline -- or literally hundreds of fairly complex
chemicals in a gallon of gasoline, and MTBE is only one of them.  And what
I’ve been doing for the last 20 years is, essentially, studying and remediating --
cleaning up -- gasoline spills.  So I think anything that focuses on one
component of gasoline is a little bit misdirected.
I think the energy, the focus, the money, from state to state,
should be spent on developing, enforcing, regulating, following up on
underground storage tank regulations.  And that’s what I’m here to speak
about, a little bit.
Our company has actually done a number of regional studies all
up and down the East Coast on the MTBE issue, relating them to MTBE
regulation -- or to underground storage tank regulations and enforcement.
And what our study showed us is that -- this is kind of intuitive -- but what our
study shows us is that the states with the most rigorous underground storage
tank regulations -- the best-funded underground storage tank regulations -- are
the states where all leaking underground storage tank issues are found to be the
leaks. So there’s a direct relationship there between what the underground
storage tank regulations look like, how they’re being enforced, how they’re
being funded.  There are less MTBE issues and petroleum spill issues in states
with sound underground storage tank regulations.
The U.S. EPA, a number of years ago, put together what they
called the Blue Ribbon Panel to study leaking underground storage tanks and
the MTBE issue.  They did not come back with a recommendation to ban
51
MTBE.  They came back with a series of recommendations on how to improve
the design, the management, the monitoring, and remediation of leaking
underground storage tanks, in general.  And I think that that’s the point that
I’m trying to make in my presentation this afternoon.
Some of the recommendations include added enforcement and
compliance resources, evaluating the UST system designs, developing sensitive
areas of wellhead protection zones, and then using this information for the
siting of underground storage tanks and pipelines.
A gentleman said earlier that they had taken issue to the location
of the service station in Ringwood.  That’s specifically what I’m talking about
here.  If there had been a little more forethought at that point that we’re going
to put a potential source of groundwater contamination up-gradiant from the
people in Ringwood -- and there was some regulation zoning thought put into
that -- then we wouldn’t be discussing Ringwood as an MTBE issue today.
Another recommendation that they made -- and a lot of states --
and state underground storage tank programs are doing now -- are simply to
prioritize known releases.  And if you identify a leaking underground storage
tank that is close to a drinking water source like Ringwood -- put that at the
top of the priority list for the State; direct moneys, energy, funding towards
those sites that end up on the priority list for the State.
New Jersey has a sound underground storage tank program.  Over
the last couple of years, they have done a number of things to enhance the
regulations.  My recommendation would simply be to take a look at the
regulations and make sure that they’re being enforced.  If the regulations are
52
enforced, or even improved, a lot of the problems that we’re talking about will
go away.
In that regard, the state of Maryland has recently promulgated a
new set of underground storage tank regulations.  And it was prompted,
primarily, by a number of MTBE releases in Maryland.  And what they have
done is, essentially, follow many of the Blue Ribbon Panel’s recommendations,
relative to identifying sensitive wellhead protection areas, improving tank
integrity testing methodologies, improving tank leak detection requirements,
putting groundwater monitoring wells in at facilities that are located near
drinking water sources.  That’s law now.
SENATOR SMITH:  Do you think those regulations are superior
to New Jersey’s?
MR. GRINSTEAD:  Yes.
SENATOR SMITH:  Can you get us a copy?
MR. GRINSTEAD:  Sure.
SENATOR SMITH:  Good.
MR. GRINSTEAD:  Superior in that they are more rigorous,
definitely.  They are more rigorous, they’re more demanding.
There’s a couple of other just technical issues that I’ll hit on real
quickly regarding MTBE and some of the -- what I’ll call misperceptions or
misunderstandings about the chemical itself.  And one was touched on earlier.
It’s about the mobility of the material.  There seems to be a general
understanding that MTBE moves much faster, much further than anything
else. It is highly soluble, so it does dissolve easily into the groundwater.  It was
53
designed that way.  It was designed to dissolve in gasoline.  So it has those
characteristics.
However, my experience is that if you find MTBE, you find other
gasoline constituents either nearby or close behind.  I’m not used to finding
contaminated sites with only MTBE and not having other things like benzene,
toluene, xylene, etc., there.
I think another large misconception is that MTBE is intractable.
You cannot treat it; there are no treatment technologies.  That, in fact, is not
the case.  MTBE is a part of gasoline.  The same conventional standard
technologies that are used for treating the other components of gasoline are
used to treat MTBE.  I can list them for you, but--  It’s a different chemical,
but it’s not unto itself.  So the technologies that are applied are applied across
the board.
In summary--
Well, I want to touch on the Ringwood issue a little bit.  It’s been
talked about a lot.  I guess the point I want to make is that the MTBE did not
cause the tank to leak.  The tank was going to leak anyway.  MTBE is simply
a component of the material that leaked from the gasoline.  Somebody actually
said the MTBE release -- and I guess it’s been repeated twice, I won’t say it
again -- but it was a gasoline release.  And MTBE is a component of gasoline.
And whether MTBE was there or not, that tank was going to leak, and there’s
going to be some other chemical in those peoples’ wells because of where that
tank is and the hydrogeology of that area.  It’s unfortunate.  Nobody wants
these things to happen.  But the tank was going to leak -- or the tank did leak.
54
In summary, I think that the problems of MTBE in New Jersey
can be best addressed by either enforcement, upgrade, or more serious
management of the underground storage tank issues.
Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Great.
We have two Senators with questions.
Senator McNamara.
SENATOR McNAMARA:  You referred to the -- that the MTBE--
And I think all of us clearly understand it’s one of the components, and that
is part of it.  But it’s been my understanding that it travels, because of the fact
that it blends so well, that it does travel faster than gasoline without it.  Is that
true or not true?
MR. GRINSTEAD:  It, as a pure chemical, would likely travel a
little bit faster than the other pure chemicals in a gasoline.  It is typically out
on the leading edge of the plume.  That is correct.
SENATOR McNAMARA:  And, secondly, you say there’s methods
to clean it up.  But from what we’ve been told over the years, it is more
difficult to remove the MTBE component than it is some of the other additives
in gasoline.  Is that true or not true?
MR. GRINSTEAD:  More difficult, yes.  Is it--
SENATOR McNAMARA:  Okay.  Does the more difficult
translate into more expensive?
MR. GRINSTEAD:  Slightly, but it’s a marginal number that we’re
talking about.  I mean, it does not say--  I’ll give you an example.  It does not
55
filter as well as some of the other constituents.  You change the type of filter
that you use.  The technology is still the same.
SENATOR McNAMARA:  Could you send, through the Chair,
information related to that, because I would really like to review it.
MR. GRINSTEAD:  Absolutely.
SENATOR SMITH:  Charcoal filtration for MTBE?
MR. GRINSTEAD:  Yes, right.
But you have to have the right size charcoal.  That’s all it is.
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay, understood.
Senator Sweeney.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Just a quick comment.  I’m not offended
by who’s representing who.  It’s just that sometimes, when you see groups
come up and they have these real catchphrase names, you don’t know who’s
funding them.
MR. GRINSTEAD:  Right.  Well, we’re--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  So it was no issue at all -- just so you--
And the other thing is, I agree with you.  We need, along with a
ban on MTBE, we need to address underground storage tanks.
And, through the Chair, I would love to see the Maryland
legislation and some of the other states that have done a better job of
regulating and monitoring underground storage tanks.  It’s not just one.
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, we’re going to check that statistic out,
too.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  So, again, I just want to let him know
that--
56
SENATOR McNAMARA:  But you can’t take any of the
underground storage tank money that I’ve been protecting right along.  So I’m
glad to hear that testimony.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Gotcha.  Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, sir.
MR. GRINSTEAD:  Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Kathy McGinnis, representing the McGinnis
family.
Ms. McGinnis.
K A T H Y   M c G I N N I S:  Hi.
I’m Kathy McGinnis.  I live in Ringwood. 
Senator Sweeney, I wrote this out for you.  It’s M-T-B-E.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  MTBE, yes.  You’ve just got to hold it up
enough.
SENATOR SMITH:  Now, if you can say the chemical name you’ll
really win the prize.
MS. McGINNIS:  It’s methyl t-butyl ether.
SENATOR SMITH:  Methyl tert-butyl.
MS. McGINNIS:  T is for tert, yes.
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Wow.
SENATOR SMITH:  Now, if you can do the chemical symbols,
we’ll really be impressed.
MS. McGINNIS:  Do you want me to do that?  Do I get a prize?
(laughter)
57
SENATOR SWEENEY:  You absolutely get the prize for that.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER FROM AUDIENCE:  Will you drop
the ban if I write it?
MS. McGINNIS:  Actually, if you want to see, I do have that with
me.
SENATOR SMITH:  No, it’s all right.
MS. McGINNIS:  Okay.
I’m going to be brief here.  I’m not a public speaker by any means.
The original intentions of the Clean Air Act are commendable, but
the actual consequences of this legislation have proven to be catastrophic.  This
is particularly evident in New Jersey’s watershed communities and towns
whose residents rely heavily on well water.  The impact of oxygenated fuel on
the ground and surface water has been researched, ignored, and policitized.
With all the knowledge we have today on the consequences of mandatory fuel
additives, it is irresponsible to consider -- to continue their storage and
distribution in New Jersey, especially in core preservation areas of the state.
Did you want a brief overview of the chemistry?  Because ethanol,
by itself, does not have enough carbon atoms to -- I mean, even though it’s a
combustive fuel -- to continue combustion, which is why they add it to the
gasoline, which has eight carbon atoms.
MTBE has been the oxygenate of choice for the petrol industry
because of its relatively low revapor pressure.  So it will not evaporate as
readily as ethanol.  It is relatively inexpensive and can be transported through
existing pipelines.  And while some studies acknowledge the claim that it’s
effective in reducing CO and VOC emissions -- especially in older vehicles --
58
a number of industry measurements also show an increase in NOx and
formaldehyde emissions.
MTBE is highly soluble in water; will transfer to groundwater
faster and move farther, in a plume-like fashion, than any other constituents
of gasoline.  The White House National Science and Technology Council
reported that, and I quote, “There is sufficient evidence that MTBE is an
animal carcinogen, and that the weight of evidence supports -- regarding
MTBE as having a carcinogenic, hazard potential for humans.”  Now, what you
heard before from the toxicologist was--
I was insulted by that, too, but there was other data that he gave
you that I believe was skewed, when he said that animals that were exposed to
MTBE had the same -- it had the same tumor eugenic effects as gasoline.  Well,
we have people in Ringwood who are drinking MTBE, they’re not drinking the
gasoline.  The MTBE is what’s mixing with the water.  So that--  When you
heard that, that was a little bit skewed also.
SENATOR SMITH:  Ms. McGinnis, your testimony seems to be
very anti-MTBE, but yet you say you’re opposed to the bill.  Why are you
opposed to the bill?
MS. McGINNIS:  I am, because I don’t want to see ethanol as an
oxygenate either.  That has problems of its own.  And I’m like Jeff Tittel.  If
you said to me, “Would you rather have MTBE or would you rather have
ethanol,” one is just as bad as the other.
SENATOR SMITH:  Just by way of information, as I understand
Senator Sweeney’s bill, he doesn’t mandate the use of ethanol.  He just has the
ban of MTBE.
59
Correct, Senator?
MS. McGINNIS:  I would just like to see it go a little bit farther
and ban oxygenates as a whole, because ethanol degrades the--
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t know if you heard the earlier
comment.  The problem with that is that we’re mandated by the Federal
government to have the 2 percent oxygenate.  And unless you get a waiver
from it -- and they haven’t granted any waivers yet -- you lose your hundreds
of millions of transportation dollars.  That’s the problem.
MS. McGINNIS:  Okay.  So can we apply for a waiver for
oxygenates as a--  I think we really have to have some courage, and step
forward, and do this as a State.
SENATOR SMITH:  We’ve heard that from other witnesses, as
well.  So it’s under consideration.
MS. McGINNIS:  Okay, I guess that’s it.  I guess you’ve heard
everything before.
Thank you for your time.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your help.
MS. McGINNIS:  Okay.
SENATOR SMITH:  Mr. Bozarth, Chemical Industry Council.
(sic)
H A L   B O Z A R T H:  I am Hal Bozarth, and I represent the business of
chemistry, if you will, in New Jersey.
And a spade of full disclosure, Lyondell is a member.
No, my wife would say they don’t pay enough, so you could
discard that part of it.
60
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Are they cheap?  (laughter)
MR. BOZARTH:  I wouldn’t use that term.
But I’m glad to be here.  I’ve watched this issue for at least five or
six years and remember the last large debate on it.  I know it’s an emotional
issue for the people in your district and for the people, obviously, in Senator
McNamara’s district.
I want to take a second and thank you, Senator Sweeney, for being
as open -- and you and your office -- as you have been with those of us on the
difficult side of the issue, and presenting our facts to you and letting you weigh
those, and we really do appreciate it.
I have two concerns that I want to talk to you today--  But, first,
I think, as I’m sitting here listening, I’m impressed with a couple of things.
And that is the inconclusiveness, I guess, of all the experts that you heard --
whether it’s DEP or EPA, the ENSR gentleman, or some of the others.  And I
think that should give us pause, because of the two points that I wanted to
bring out.
And I should say that I’m also pleased to have Jeff Tittel finally see
the light on an issue that I’m interested in.  And it’s good to see that he can
learn a little bit.  (laughter)
SENATOR SMITH:  I understand Mr. Pringle is going to be with
you, as well.
MR. BOZARTH:  That may be too much, but it’s okay.  (laughter)
The problem here seems to be, from a manufacturer’s point of
view in New Jersey, that with an EPA mandate for reformulated gasoline --
which my friend Jim Benton can talk more eloquently about -- there’s an
61
impact to those people who do provide manufacturing jobs.  If we fail to meet
the State implementation plan because we’re now missing the opportunity to
have an oxygenate that the EPA will accept, not only will the potential millions
of dollars in transportation funds be lost, but also a concomitant downswing
on the regulatory controls for stationary sources.  And so my members and
clients in New Jersey, who have that as a specific situation, will see their
regulations tightened even further, making them less competitive.  MTBE--
SENATOR SMITH:  Does that same reasoning apply to diesel
particulates?
MR. BOZARTH:  It probably does, yes.
MTBE has been, in effect, a boon to the environmental quality of
New Jersey.  It has done good things.  It’s replaced a portion of benzene that’s
also found in gasoline.  And to that extent, I think that’s good.  It is a
Hobson’s choice whether you say cleaner air or protection of water.  It’s a very
difficult choice.
But I think, as I’m listening to the testimony today, it seems that
the real culprit here are the leaking underground storage tanks.  And while I
understand it’s so easy to identify a substance like MTBE as being the real bad
actor in all of this, it’s somewhat off the main point of protecting people’s
water.  And I think you’ve all heard that.
The other point I’d like to make -- and I don’t want to diminish
the first one by putting it first, because if the EPA fails to give a waiver -- which
I don’t think it wants to do anytime soon -- that means that New Jersey’s
manufacturers, as I said, would be at risk.
62
The second thing is, I would ask the Committee to consider some
way to make sure that, as we go forward, the risk of litigation from aggrieved
parties, who are emotionally upset about their situation, is not allowed to
impact those people who are not at fault for the problem.  And I think that if
the State of New Jersey is saying to be in compliance we need an oxygenate,
and MTBE is the chosen one, then those people who have been involved in the
processing, the refining, and frankly the manufacturing of that material should
not be held as the causal point for the problems that occur in Senator
Sweeney’s district and in Ringwood, as difficult as they are.  There needs to be
some protection.  If the government is going to say, on one hand, you should
do X, on the other hand, the government should protect those people who are
doing those things.
Those are my two points.  It’s a very difficult issue.  And I
commend the Chairman for having these kinds of interactive sessions, because
you all get a chance to hear from the experts to try to make a decision in a
highly emotional deal.
Consider, please, the impact on stationary sources, and consider
the potential litigation that would accrue should this material, MTBE
specifically, be banned.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Bozarth.
We have a tandem team of Robert Cowan and David Specca, from
the Rutgers EcoComplex, in Bordentown, New Jersey, speaking in favor of the
bill.
63
D A V I D   S P E C C A:  Thank you, Senators.  Thank you for your
patience, too, in listening to all this testimony.
I’m here today with Dr. Bob Cowan.
Being the Acting Director of the Rutgers EcoComplex, the
environmental experiment station for Cook College, Rutgers University, our
center focuses on applied technologies and practical solutions to complex
environmental problems.  Some of our focused work is in the area of water,
and air, and solid waste management.  It also includes renewable
transportation fuels. 
The Farm Bureau and Garden State Ethanol had asked if we could,
perhaps, find someone up at Rutgers University who was working on MTBE
to, perhaps, shed a little bit of light on what happens with MTBE when it does
enter the groundwater.  And, fortunately for all us, I think there’s a quite
extensive amount of work being done on MTBE at the University.
And, today, we’re fortunate enough to have Dr. Bob Cowan, who
has worked at Rutgers University and has since gone on to a private consulting
business.  And I’d like to let him speak from here out.
R O B E R T   M.   C O W A N,   Ph.D.:  Hello, Senators.
Can you hear me fine?  (affirmative responses)
My name is Robert Cowan.  I am an environmental consultant.
I do not have any clients at this time who have any vested interest in this
discussion.  I hold a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in chemical engineering,
and a doctorate in environmental engineering.  I was on the faculty at Clemson
University for three years, and then at Rutgers for six years.
64
While I was on the faculty at Rutgers, I did research on MTBE
biodegradation.  This research was initiated in 1995-96.  At that time, in
general, MTBE was considered not biodegradable.  My work was associated
with disproving that fact.  Funding that supported this work was supplied by
the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.  And I had funding
from the American Petroleum Institute.
I state--  The card that I handed in stated my support for the bill.
But this relates to my opinion that you’re better off using ethanol, as I’ll
explain, than with MTBE use, basically because of biodegradability concerns.
The arguments that others have made with respect to waivers --
trying to get a waiver of the 2 percent oxygen requirement and/or better
management of underground storage tanks sound -- in my opinion, sound --
if this direction of this legislation were to -- if this legislation were to move in
that type of direction, I would support that.
So I will be back to what I prepared before I came here.
Through my work we found that, yes, MTBE is biodegradable.
The difficulty, with respect to this--  And the concern is that it’s
biodegradation is quite slow.  I have five handouts that I gave you.  Three are
related to aerobic biodegradation of MTBE.  To simplify the results, it’s
approximately 50 times slower -- the MTBE biodegradation is approximately
50 times slower than that for other gasoline contaminants that are typically of
concern, such as benzene, toluene, ethyl benzene, and xylene.  This means that
in the environment, MTBE will stay around longer in a zone of
biodegradation, therefore having a greater opportunity to transport further.
65
The condition, under anaerobic situation, where there is a lack of
oxygen present in the groundwater -- which is a common occurrence at higher
levels of contamination by organic compounds, because the oxygen is used up,
and other electronic scepters are required -- in other words, anaerobic
conditions.  Under these conditions, MTBE is not mineralized.  It leaves
degradation products.  The one that you’d be most familiar with, and is of
most concern here, is tertiary butyl alcohol.  The issue with tertiary butyl
alcohol is it is also very slowly biodegradable.  It is also very soluble.  So it has
concerns with respect to duration of being maintained in the environment and
transport lengths, similar to MTBE.  Tertiary butyl alcohol is also more
difficult to remove than MTBE, using physical and chemical methods.
Under anaerobic conditions -- handouts four and five address
these.  Dr. Max Häggblom, at Rutgers, who could not be here today, was the
lead on that work.  I’m a co-author on one of those papers.  To simplify, the
biodegradability of MTBE -- it would be approximately 100 times slower than
the other contaminants, in general, under anaerobic conditions.
This difficulty in biodegradation of MTBE is directly related to its
molecular structure.  It being a tertiary carbon compound, microorganisms
have difficulty attacking this bond.
SENATOR SMITH:  What’s the half-life in the environment?
DR. COWAN:  For?
SENATOR SMITH:  MTBE, under aerobic or anaerobic
conditions?
DR. COWAN:  I don’t have a number on the top of my head.  I’m
sorry.
66
SENATOR SMITH:  Any ballpark?  Is it 10 years, five years, a
year?
DR. COWAN:  On the order of a year, if I’m remembering
correctly.
One of the points I’m trying to make with respect to the structure
of fuel oxygenates is, there are other (indiscernible) potential alternatives in the
past that I’ve seen.  ETBE and TAME -- that would be ethyl tertiary butyl
ether and tertiary amyl methyl ether -- these have the same basis of their
molecular structure.  They’re tertiary carbon compounds.  I did biodegradation
experiments on these.  They, essentially, degrade in the same manner -- slowly,
as MTBE, also leaving tertiary alcohols as potential intermediates.  These
would make them poor choices as potential alternatives.  So, if you were to ban
MTBE, it would make sense to include those in the ban.
There was some testimony with respect to the removal
technologies for MTBE.  I agree that, yes, the same types of removal
technologies can be used for MTBE as for other gasoline components.  The
issue becomes, with respect to the size and expense in running those.  While,
technically, MTBE removal may not be excessively more expensive, the fact
that you’ll typically find tertiary butyl alcohol complicates that considerably.
For example, work done on air stripping--  MTBE can be air-stripped.  The
order of difficulty in removing it may be two times, whereas, then, tertiary
butyl alcohol -- an additional 10 times more difficult.
I’m just trying to catch my place.
This also fits with carbon absorption.  Tertiary butyl alcohol is
much more difficult to remove using carbon absorption than MTBE.  So while
67
MTBE is biodegradable and biodegradation and physical chemical technologies
do exist for its removal -- both in situ and ex situ -- these tend to be more
difficult and expensive than for removal of your standard contaminant --
BTEX.
You need to consider these issues when you’re making your
decision with respect to banning MTBE.
So I thank you for your time.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your testimony.  It’s most
appreciated.
Mr. Jim Benton, from the New Jersey Petroleum Council.  Neither
box is checked, opposed or in favor.
J I M   B E N T O N:  Chairman and Senator Sweeney, good afternoon.
My name is Jim Benton.  I’m the Executive Director of the New
Jersey Petroleum Council.  Beside me is my colleague, John Maxwell.
Thanks for the opportunity to present our views on the legislation
before you today.
Obviously, you’ve recognized the significance of this issue to the
industry and its consumers here in the state.  We appreciate the courtesies that
you’ve shown us and the dialogue on this legislation.  We’ve been engaged with
this issue for some time, because of its importance to the state.
New Jersey, really, is clearly one of the most strategic centers for
the petroleum industry in the nation, particularly the Northeast.  We’re home
to the New York Mercantile Exchange, where the wet barrels back up the
trading exercises that go on over in New York.  We’re reserve to a home
heating oil reserve.  We’re the critical distribution point for gasoline.  And
68
we’re recognized by the Federal government as part of our nation’s critical
infrastructure.
I brought along the chart, because I think it helps place into
perspective the dialogue that we’d like to participate in.  And that is that
presently, under Federal law, New Jersey is required to have Federal
reformulated gasoline.  And included in that specification is a congressional
mandate for the use of an oxygenate.  And the legislation before you today, as
you’ve heard -- we’ve been talking -- would eliminate the choice of the most
commonly used oxygenate -- that’s MTBE -- by January 1, 2008.
The common thread that weaves through all of the -- a vast
majority of the speakers before you today, is that the best answer to this policy
question would be to have Federal action to avoid a patchwork of different fuel
specifications throughout the state.  And that resolution is contained in the
Federal energy bill.  That’s, clearly, our approach.
The same approach in addressing this issue was shared through the
dialogue that we’ve had with other interests, such as the Department of
Environmental Protection and the New Jersey Farm Bureau.  It’s the optimal
solution, eliminating the oxygenate mandate, phasing down MTBE.  It’s highly
desirable, and it’s contained in the version of the energy legislation that has
been recently passed by the House of Representatives.
I know there’s been conversation relative to the oxygenate waiver
request.  Clearly, the Federal energy bill, in its consideration, would be another
element to this matrix.
This issue is a big issue.  New Jersey ranks sixth in the nation in
petroleum refining capacity.  We’re ninth in petroleum energy consumption
69
in the nation.  To establish a sense of the proportion of the undertaking,
MTBE comprises roughly 11 percent, by volume, of the approximately four
billion gallons of gasoline sold here in New Jersey.  To replace the volume will
be a significant challenge and requires adequate time and planning.  That
planning involves production, it involves transportation, all of which ensures
a smooth transition for our customers.
The effort to eliminate MTBE will match the combined volume
and the undertaking of New York and Connecticut when those states moved
to ban MTBE.  I restate that again, because I think it’s significant.  When you
look at the map, you take the volumes that go into Connecticut and the
volumes that are required to go into New York and combine them, it matches
the volume for New Jersey.  It’s clearly on the same scope as doing both states.
Significantly, both states permitted adequate lead time to the
industry.  That’s consistent with the Federal Environmental Protection Agency
Blue Ribbon Panel recommendations for four-year lead time for fuel changes
to the states.  That helped ensure that New York and Connecticut had a
smooth transition as they banned MTBE and moved to ethanol.
I would also wish to underscore:  Should this Committee conclude
that action is necessary, the most appropriate start date is January 1 of the year
the measure goes into effect.  It’s currently in the bill.  It should be supported.
It’s also important to examine where other states currently stand
in their consideration regarding this initiative.
SENATOR SMITH:  Can you stop for a second?
MR. BENTON:  Certainly.
70
SENATOR SMITH:  Your point about the start date should be
January 1--
MR. BENTON:  That’s correct.
SENATOR SMITH:  --2006.
MR. BENTON:  The start date would be January 1.  Our policy
is for a four-year lead time, Senator.
SENATOR SMITH:  So it would be January 1, four years from the
date of enactment.
MR. BENTON:  Four years from the day of enactment.
SENATOR SMITH:  Is that currently in the bill?
MR. BENTON:  Currently in the bill, it’s January 1, which should
be supported.  But it’s 2008 that’s in the present bill.
SENATOR SMITH:  And why, again, do you need four years to
do this?
MR. BENTON:  Well, we believe we need four years to do so
because of the challenges that are brought to the industry in bringing ethanol
to the marketplace here in New Jersey, making certain that all marketers have
the ample opportunity to work through the challenges -- whether it’s
transportation, whether it is production, whether it’s the storage, fire safety,
just different transitions that go on, with regard to the substitution of MTBE
with ethanol.
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay, thank you.
MR. BENTON:  That’s our policy.
SENATOR SMITH:  I’m sorry to interrupt.
71
MR. BENTON:  Now, you’re going to easily hear certain
marketers within our industry can do it quicker, but this is the consensus
policy statement, just so you’re not mislead.  I want to be as clear as I can on
that.
The other thing we support and recognize in the legislation that
Senator Sweeney has sponsored is the de minimis level of MTBE by .5 percent
by volume.  That should be supported.  In other words, there could be trace
amounts in there.  Senator Sweeney has that in the bill.
We also wish to highlight, which is not in the bill, the need for
consideration that -- should the Committee move on this -- New Jersey is a
distribution point for other states.  As a result, what we’d like see is a trans --
what’s called trans-shipment -- that is, you can manufacture gasoline containing
MTBE that can be shipped for sale in other states.  It’s a critical component.
It’s recognized in the New York and Connecticut legislation, also.
SENATOR SMITH:  And that’s not currently in our bill?
MR. BENTON:  That is not currently in your bill.
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  Would you mind forwarding
language to Senator Sweeney on that?  Because I’m sure he’d like to consider
anything that’s constructive in nature.
MR. BENTON:  Certainly.  You look at nearby Pennsylvania for
example.  Pennsylvania also requires reformulated gasoline.  And while, clearly,
we would prefer regional -- we would prefer Federal and then regional
solutions, you’d also recognize that that distribution could come through New
Jersey.
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.
72
MR. BENTON:  Absent the adoption of a Federal energy
legislation -- this goes to a comment that was made by Senator Adler before --
New Jersey should seek a Federal waiver from the oxygenate requirement.  A
favorable decision from EPA to waive that requirement might provide a path
for states like New York, or like New Jersey, to consider.  New York and
California has already petitioned the EPA in that matter.  I would candidly
agree that it does seem to be a longer shot.  Enactment of the Federal energy
legislation seems to be closer at hand and provides more immediate certainty.
Let me also briefly discuss ethanol.  Most casual observers would
suggest that the petroleum industry is opposed to ethanol.  And we believe that
ethanol has a bright future in assisting us in meeting our energy needs.  The
Petroleum Council has met with our friends at the New Jersey Farm Bureau to
discuss their interest, at the very earliest considerations regarding production
plans that they had in New Jersey.
It’s true, we are customers of ethanol both here and the Midwest,
and where it is readily available.  And we plan to be customers of ethanol in the
future.
However, 
ethanol 
does 
have 
distinct 
environmental,
transportation, and air quality challenges, some of which you have heard today.
The petroleum industry will work to enhance and ensure a safe,
environmentally appropriate secure use of this oxygenate as we move to meet
our energy needs.
We wish to thank the Committee, and particularly the sponsor,
and you, Mr. Chairman, for moving deliberately and carefully on this measure.
73
It’s a big deal.  And we’d be happy to work with you in answering any
questions you might have as you begin addressing this issue.
Thank you for your time.
SENATOR SMITH:  That four-year period before the law would
take effect, would there be a phase-in during the four years, or is it that it
immediately takes effect at the end of the four years?
MR. BENTON:  It would immediately take effect in the four years
-- at the end of the four years.
SENATOR SMITH:  Would there be the option, however, to start
replacing MTBE with ethanol during the four years, or not?
MR. BENTON:  Certainly, if a marketer chose to do so.
SENATOR SMITH:  Right, it would be market forces.
Senator Sweeney, any questions?  (no response)
Thank you, Mr. Benton and Mr. Maxwell.
J O H N   M A X W E L L:  Could I--  I’d like--
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, sure.  Go ahead.
MR. MAXWELL:  I just want to add something here.
I don’t know.  Do I push that one?  (referring to PA microphone)
I guess that one.  Whatever.
In response to an earlier question, I believe by Senator Adler and,
I think, by you, Senator Sweeney--  In terms of UST enforcement, the DEP
has assembled an enforcement team.  They’re in the process of building 18
positions, 18 dedicated inspectors to work with the County Environmental
Health Act people, to go around and make sure that the underground storage
tanks at our retail service stations are in compliance with the UST regs.  So
74
they’re very aggressive about this.  They put out a compliance advisory.  And
we are very supportive of that, because we want to see those regulations
followed to the letter of the requirements.
I just wanted to add that in.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you.
Mr. Pringle, New Jersey Environmental Federation, opposed to the
bill.
D A V I D   P R I N G L E:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
We do oppose the bill in its current form for similar reasons to the
Sierra Club.  We think it diagnoses a very legitimate problem but proposes the
wrong solution.
And while the bill clearly, simply bans MTBE, we all know that the
practical impact of banning MTBE, if isn’t otherwise specified, will be the
increase of ethanol use in New Jersey.  And that’s problematic for a variety of
reasons.
Before I get into my prepared testimony, I just wanted to address
a couple of points from the testimony I’ve heard today.  First, in no way,
shape, or form are we apologists for the MTBE industry.  I think language
they’re seeking at the Federal level, in terms of getting liability relief for their
past act -- information they had that they didn’t act on -- is inexcusable.  So
in opposing this bill, in no way, shape, or form are we apologists for MTBE and
do we want to see MTBE, moving forward.
Second, I want to just -- earlier testifier on national security.  If we
replace MTBE with ethanol, we’ll actually be using more -- we’ll be more
reliant on gasoline than we otherwise would be, because the oxygen levels in
75
ethanol are twice -- there’s double -- twice the density of oxygen in ethanol as
in MTBE.  So if you were using 11 percent by volume for MTBE in gasoline,
you actually only need 5 percent -- or 5.5 percent per volume of ethanol.  That
means you’re going to be going from 89 percent gasoline to 94.5 percent
gasoline.  So we’ll actually be needing more gasoline if we replace it with
ethanol than if we don’t -- in reformulated fuels.  That’s part of the -- I’ll leave
it at that.
You seem -- questioning.
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, my understanding is that you’re not
limited to 5 percent.  In other words, if they wanted to add more than 5
percent ethanol to the gasoline mix, that that’s permissive.
MR. PRINGLE:  That’s true.  If they went up to 11 percent, then
that point wouldn’t be the case.
SENATOR SMITH:  Right, you’re saying to--
MR. PRINGLE:  My understanding is that they wouldn’t -- that
that would have other impacts, in terms of energy content and all.  So you
wouldn’t want to go to 11 percent ethanol.
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t know the answer to that.  But I sure
appreciate somebody who has expertise on that addressing it.  Good point.
MR. PRINGLE:  I’m not that person.
SENATOR SMITH:  Good point.
MR. PRINGLE:  And I’ll take a couple of other questions that --
directly at hand that were asked of other folks.  All of our funding comes from-
-  Three-quarters of our funding comes from individual citizens, as Senator
Sweeney knows, originally contacted at the door; and a small portion of our
76
contributions come from foundations that do work in New Jersey, like Fund
for New Jersey and the Schumann Fund.  So we’re not getting any money from
the MTBE industry.  In fact, at one point we did get money from the ethanol
industry, indirectly, to work on banning MTBE.  When we realized we did, we
gave it back.  We don’t like to take money that is, in any way, shape, or form,
tainted.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  I think I helped your fundraising.
(laughter)
MR. PRINGLE:  And in terms of ethanol versus MTBE, we do
think it’s a false question.  There are other options.  But if, put a gun to my
head, I think one of the things we have going on here, there are--  Ethanol
creates air quality problems that MTBE doesn’t.  And the air quality problems
they present are very well-documented, in terms of the health impacts and the
causal links between ozone, and NOx, and volatile organics, and the health
impacts of respiratory disease.  They’re very well-documented.  It’s to the point
of an epidemic, as this Committee knows.  And the great work and struggle
that’s been going on, first in clean car and then the diesel legislation--
Whether there are--  What health effects there are, and at what
levels, is certainly, at the very least, unknown and a big question mark when
it comes to MTBE.  So we have a well-documented health problem when it
comes to ethanol.  And we have a big question mark when it comes to MTBE.
Until we have a better understanding of what MTBE is all about, it would be
unwise for us to be saying--  We know what ethanol is, it’s a problem.  It would
be unwise to substitute MTBE for ethanol, given the information we have at
hand.
77
So with all that, our position -- and I know that at times this has
been raised.  This isn’t personal.  It isn’t who’s sponsoring what bill.  We’ve
supported--  We support legislation on its merits, like mercury searches and
chemical security, when it’s there.  And we don’t when it’s not.  And,
unfortunately, in this instance, in its current form, it’s not.  If you included
language that the League of Municipalities has in their resolution, saying ban
MTBE but don’t replace it with ethanol, well we’d be more than happy to not
only support that legislation, but knock on doors in favor of that legislation.
That’s why I was a little surprised to hear that the League left a
statement of support for the legislation, because this legislation isn’t consistent
with their resolution.  So I would ask the Committee to get a clarification from
the League of Municipalities as to exactly what their position is.
I’m trying to minimize the duplication of testimony.  A couple of
points to expand on our position--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Can I ask one question.
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  If you wouldn’t mind, just--  The 19
states that have already banned MTBE -- are they experiencing air quality
issues because of the ban?
MR. PRINGLE:  I can--  I at least know of one -- more than
anecdote, but not a scientific survey to answer that question -- it is yes.
California has had a problem with volatile organics as a result of--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  California has a lot of problems.  You
can’t use California.  (laughter)
78
MR. PRINGLE:  California has had an increased problem as a
result of it.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  But the other--  And I truly respect your
knowledge and how much you research issues.  The other 18 states -- or 17
states--  It’s 18 or 19, whatever.  Are they -- because I know you do your
research -- are they experiencing--
California is a different animal altogether with all the problems
they have.  There’s numerous problems.  But the other states, are they having
problems that are documented?
MR. PRINGLE:  I don’t have any information about the other
states.  I can tell you, though, that there is no more reputable organization,
when it comes to air quality, than the California Air Resources Board.  And,
yes, they have lots of problems, but they are the expert on these issues.  And
when California banned MTBE and they replaced it with ethanol, they have
found -- they have had increased difficulty, as a result of that ban, in
complying and getting into attainment when it comes to volatile organics, and
ozone, and the like.  And part of the reason is, ethanol degrades the rubber and
plastic components in cars.  And that’s one of the reasons you see -- erodes
those components.  That’s one of the reasons you see increased evaporative
emissions as a result.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  And I’m not going to get into a debate.
It’s an honest question.
MR. PRINGLE:  Right.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Because I hate asking questions I don’t
already have the answer to.  (laughter)
79
MR. PRINGLE:  That’s why neither you or I are lawyers.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Yes.
But in New York or Connecticut, which are our neighbors, are they
having problems?
MR. PRINGLE:  Again, I don’t have information on the other 18
states.  The only study--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  But I mean, I know you can get that--
But do you know what I’m saying?  Physically, our location and everything else
-- with the same conditions and the same problems with the pollution coming
from the Midwest to the East.  Knowing all the problems we experience, I
would be curious -- and maybe we can get that answer somehow -- if New York
state and Connecticut are experiencing problems with air quality.
MR. PRINGLE:  And to my knowledge, the only state that has
really looked at that question is California, and has found a problem.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Well, we’ll try to get that.
MR. PRINGLE:  Right.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Thank you.
MR. PRINGLE:  I’d be interested to hear the Committee’s results
on that, as well.
Because of the volatile organic problem associated with ethanol,
if you--  What they need to do to come into compliance is reduce either -- hit
other sectors of volatile organics harder and/or reduce the volatile nature of the
base gas that ethanol is being released with.  And if they--  To a degree, that’s
doable.  New Jersey already has an incredible volatile organic problem as it is.
80
So we should be doing that anyway, in keeping -- again, if forced with the
choice of MTBE or ethanol, we should be doing that anyway.
My understanding -- and this is based on the Department of
Energy Information -- U.S. Department of Energy -- that the cost of gasoline
with MTBE versus ethanol -- ethanol gas is $.03.5 to $.05 more expensive.  If
you factor in the four billion gallons we use in New Jersey, that comes out to
be 150 to 200 million gallons per year.  And, again, part of that is based on the
-- you’re only using half as much ethanol, by volume, as you would MTBE, and
using more gas, therefore the increased expense.  That doesn’t factor in the
increased transportation costs.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  David, can I, again, interrupt you?
MR. PRINGLE:  Yes.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  How current is that information that you
have?
MR. PRINGLE:  I got it off the Department--
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Yes, I understand.  But what’s the year
that was--
MR. PRINGLE:  I will find out.  I don’t have that off the top of
my head.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  I think that’s old.  I’d like to know when
that data was collected.
MR. PRINGLE:  It’s currently on the Energy Web site, but I don’t
know based on when.  So I will get back to you on that.
That figure doesn’t include the transportation costs.  Because of
the nature of ethanol -- that it can degrade piping and such -- it can’t be
81
transported by pipes.  And that means additional costs, especially if you’re not
going to have a local source of ethanol.  And as I understand it, the current
proposed plan would use about -- or produce approximately 40 million gallons
a year, which is only a fraction of what we would need in New Jersey, if we’re
going to replace MTBE in total with ethanol.
Just to emphasize a point, it’s also our understanding that the
amount of energy needed to produce ethanol, and transport ethanol, is more --
is greater than the actual amount of energy in ethanol.  So for that broader
scale--  I know they’re getting more efficient, but I still think--  And that makes
it less bad, but it’s still not there.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Dave, one argument though.  When you
throw in the factor that farmers are growing crops -- watering and growing
crops that’s taking energy -- that they would normally be growing and watering
crops for us to consume.  And the fact that maybe ethanol keeps the farm there
rather than it be bulldozed over, as we both would prefer not to see happen--
When I heard that earlier--  I don’t know how you put the energy
equation of growing a crop into the production.  I mean, maybe the
production, the water, all the other issues you can make--  But growing crops
is what farmers do.  And that energy’s there whether there’s ethanol or not.
MR. PRINGLE:  And that reminds me of a point I wanted to make
earlier.  Our testimony is not anti-farmer.  But I think it’s important to know
what’s really happening with this legislation.  And I think this is--  Getting in
some of my additional testimony, I think this is more a pro-farmer bill than it
is an environmental bill.  And I certainly don’t want to take an anti-farmer
position, although some of my friends in the farming community might dispute
82
that at times.  I would like to find other, better ways to promote the agriculture
industry in New Jersey than this particular bill.
I think it’s unfortunate and notable that neither the Department
of Agriculture or Department of Environmental Protection are here.  It’s my
understanding they’re not planning on being here to testify or providing the
Committee input.  I think that should not go unsaid.
And I think what I’d just like to close with is, what we would like
to see is those alternatives.  I think, first of all, the MCL in drinking water in
New Jersey is pathetic at 70 parts.  It’s totally unacceptable.  I’m a member of
the Drinking Water Quality Institute -- which I know the State drinking water
law advises DEP in what new standards should be.  And the Department has
asked us to take a look, and we are taking a look.  But I would--  And I know
Senator McNamara has a bill that this Committee passed that tells DEP to
revise that standard.  So I don’t think we need legislation.  But I think it would
be helpful for all of you to continue watchdogging that process, and staying on
top of DEP, and making sure that we come up with a new, better standard no
matter what.
An additional part of our testimony, getting back to it, because
there was one point I forgot--  This legislation doesn’t deal with any of the 40
years of past contamination.  So whether we have this legislation or not, we
still have 40 years worth of MTBE to deal with.  And as we’ve heard, it’s not
going to degrade any time quickly at all.  So this would certainly make the
MTBE -- wouldn’t make the MTBE problem worse.  It’s not going to make it --
it won’t make it more worse, but it’s not going to make it better, because we
have 40 years of contamination already out there.
83
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Again, Dave, real quick statement.  If we
don’t ban it, we’ll have 40 years plus 40 years, plus 50 years if we don’t do
something about it.
MR. PRINGLE:  Unless we get our act together better.  And I
think this Department is starting to do that.
The ideal solution is to get rid of the oxygenate requirement.  I
would actually prefer a waiver than the Federal legislation, because I think
while we might like that little atom in the pill of the Federal energy legislation,
I’m willing to bet there’s unanimity on this Committee, both Democratic and
Republican, that that energy bill is going to be an atrocity when it comes to the
environment.  So hopefully that bill won’t happen, and there are other options
out there for us.
But we would like to see that waiver.  We would like to see DEP
be much more aggressive in their enforcement.  I think they’re starting to get
there, but they’re not there yet -- witness money sitting in certain
constitutionally dedicated funds and not getting out the door getting the job
done.  Some of that requires additional legislative and/or constitutional
changes.
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, you know, on that point, you may
remember that we did a constitutional rededication of the CBT funds to have
more aggressive enforcement of underground storage laws.
MR. PRINGLE:  Right.
SENATOR SMITH:  So I would respectfully disagree that it’s not
being used to aggressively enforce our underground storage tank laws.
84
MR. PRINGLE:  But I’m not saying it’s not.  I’m saying it could
be done even better, because we still have some money sitting in--
SENATOR SMITH:  Always room for improvement.
MR. PRINGLE:  Right.  I would suggest a lot of room, although
it’s not through fault of the folks in this room that it’s not being better spent.
So rather than this legislation see -- MCL, better enforcement, the
Federal -- if we have to swallow the Federal legislation, so be it.  We shouldn’t
lobby for it, but it might solve the problem in and of itself.  Aggressively seek
the waiver.
And it’s also my understanding -- and I don’t have enough
information to really testify on it -- but it’s my understanding that there is
some new types of reformulated gas that might get the oxygenate situation
under control without having to be any of these current oxygenates, all of
which are problematic, whether it be ethanol, MTBE, or some of the ones the
EcoComplex earlier testified to.
Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you.
Gloria Gledhill, from the New Jersey American Water.
G L O R I A   G L E D H I L L:  Good afternoon.
I’m here representing New Jersey American Water, and I will be
very brief.
As the state’s largest water provider -- we have over two million
residents -- two million customers across the state that we provide drinking
water to -- I just wanted to commend you on your efforts.  We support the bill,
as we would like to see the discontinued use of MTBE.  And we support
85
immediate phase out of it, as there is a significant impact on the groundwater
and, therefore, a significant cost attached to removing it from the water -- the
treatment process and the testing.
So with that in mind, we support the bill, and we thank you.
That’s it.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you.
Monte Shaw, Renewable Fuels Association.
M O N T E   S H A W:  I handed in testimony earlier.  So, hopefully, that’s
somewhere.
I appreciate being here.  I know it’s been a long day, so I will try
and speak loudly and wave my arms or something to keep your attention.
My name is Monte Shaw.  I’m with the Renewable Fuels
Association.  We’re the national trade group that represents ethanol producers.
So there should be no doubt where we’re from.
I didn’t realize you could not mark a box, so I think I marked one.
But I should state that as a national ethanol trade association, we do not take
a position on state MTBE bans.  However, as has been the case in almost every
state where it’s been discussed, you can’t talk about banning MTBE without
getting into a lot of ethanol issues that you’ve heard today.  And, therefore, a
lot of misinformation is put out there.  And so I’m here today to try and clean
some of that up.  And I’d also be happy to take any questions that you might
have.
In a sense, New Jersey benefits from some of the actions that have
happened in other states, such as your neighbors in Connecticut, New York,
or out in California.  There is a track record.  This is no longer a theoretical
86
exercise.  We have over a year-and-a-third worth of data to look at.  And so I
think when you’re asking, can we ban MTBE to protect drinking water without
harming air quality, without harming -- raising gasoline prices, you can look at
the track record and feel very confident in saying, “Yes, we can do that.”  If
you choose to ban MTBE, ethanol can replace it with none of those negative
side effects.
And I want to commend the Committee on their questions so far.
I think I can skip over some of this because--  A lot of places I go, people don’t
even understand ethanol is grain alcohol.  It’s moonshine.  We like to think
that we’re a little bit more sophisticated than that term might use.  But it
naturally occurs in the bloodstream.  You’re going to consume more ethanol
with a drink -- maybe after a hearing this long, that’s not an uncommon thing
-- than you will ever get from exposure to it through gasoline.  There’s a lot of
studies that say if you have a drink or two a day, that actually has numerous
health benefits.  Of course, if you have seven or eight drinks a day for 20 years,
you might get liver cancer, or other bad things are going to happen.  You guys
covered that earlier, so I’m not going to go into that.  But that’s what we’re
talking about here.
I was going to bring a little bottle of vodka.  Vodka is generally 40
percent ethanol, 60 percent water.  That’s what it is.  You take the water out,
that’s what we put in the gasoline.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  I’m in trouble.  (laughter)
MR. SHAW:  We talked a lot about ethanol is--  One of the
previous people talked about California being a leader in this.  I didn’t want
to bring it up on the train -- it stands about this tall, it’s in my office -- it’s the
87
Comprehensive Health and Environmental Assessment of the Use of Ethanol
as a Fuel Oxygenate.  It was undertaken by California.  They had a whole
multi-faceted group from CARB, their health -- the California EPA and all
these people came together and, literally, chopped down numerous trees to
print out this report.  And at the end of the day, what they did is, they gave
ethanol a clean bill of health to replace MTBE in gasoline.  So a lot of these
questions have been asked and answered back in 1999 and 2001.  I’ve got it
on CD.  It’s my only copy, but I’d be happy to try and get another set if
someone really wants to read all that.  So that has been done.
There has been a lot of talk about ethanol’s energy balance.  If you
stacked up all the papers on energy balance, you’d have a stack about this high
that says ethanol has a positive energy balance somewhere between maybe 40
percent positive.  The latest U.S.D.A. numbers are 67 percent positive.  You’d
have one report over here that says it’s negative.  Well, one-and-a-half.  He’s
got a colleague in California, now, that is using the same data and
methodology.
Ethanol has a positive energy balance.  We are, quite frankly, kind
of partially solar energy.  The corn uses the sun when it grows.  So even when
you factor in the energy inputs in the farming, which you discussed--  Even
with all that in, even with transportation between farms and ethanol producers,
ethanol producers and the marketplace, for every BTU of fossil fuels you put
into it, you get out 1.67 BTUs on the other end, according to the U.S.D.A.
experts in this field.  I’d also note that very little of that is actually petroleum.
It’s mostly natural gas -- some coal in areas of the country where they use that
for electricity.  So, from a gasoline standpoint, energy dependent standpoint,
88
for every one BTU of petroleum that goes into this whole life cycle, you get out
over 13 BTUs of ethanol.
I’d also like to note that New Jersey, right now, is using a boutique
fuel.  We had the map up here earlier.  You’re surrounded by the New York
Harbor.  Northern New Jersey, where you primarily use the reformulated
gasoline, are the New York Harbor market.  The other participants in that
market primarily use ethanol-blended RFG -- New York and Connecticut.
Ethanol is blended in 30 percent of all gasoline.  And it’s actually, now
nationwide, blended in more reformulated gasoline than MTBE.  So MTBE is
no longer the dominant oxygenate, even within the reformulated gasoline
program.  And certainly, right here, you have a bifurcated market, that if you
banned MTBE and went to ethanol -- which certainly simplifies some storage,
and transportation, and issues of that nature -- and it would unify the
marketplace.
I’d also note that in terms of supply, the Colonial Pipeline is,
recently been -- that’s what brings the 40 percent that comes up from the Gulf,
or whatever--  I don’t know the statistics.  Someone said it earlier.  That
Colonial Pipeline is now full.  They’re doing allocations.  No more gas can
come up here to meet the demand.  Ethanol comes on unit trains, or by barge,
water shipments.  So it’s a way to add 10 percent of the supply that doesn’t
come through that pipeline.  And it uses a different thing to expand supply.
I think that’s important to know.
Back to the ethanol record.  If you look at California, you look at
New Jersey -- or excuse me, we’re in New Jersey.  I’m sorry.  You look at New
York or Connecticut -- there’s a track record there.  Pat Perez, who’s the fuels
89
expert with the California Energy Commission, was recently quoted in
Sacramento Bee on this very topic, saying, “We really didn’t see the anticipated
price spikes due to ethanol.”  There were predictions of 50 percent, 100
percent price spikes.  Nothing happened.
In New York and Connecticut, the same predictions were made,
and yet the price of ethanol RFG in New York has been at or below the average
price of reformulated gasoline across the country.  And, in fact, if you look at
the statistics, it’s often been very similar in price to conventional gasoline,
supposedly the cheap gasoline, to produce in the New York area.  And I have
some numbers in there.
And, in fact, you’re closer to home when the Coalition of
Northeastern Governors, known as CONEG, looked at this.  They talked about
how the infrastructure was developed in time.  And then to highlight one of
their quotes, they said, “MTBE ban-induced price increases have not been
reported by EIA” -- that’s the Federal agency -- “New York, or Connecticut,
who are monitoring prices.  California energy officials report a similar
experience in meeting their January 2004 MTBE ban.”  This is not a study,
this is not a prediction.  This is what happened and what the experts are saying
about it.
Then I’d really like to focus your attention on this next chart,
which looks at wholesale gasoline prices.  I know we had a debate earlier about,
is New Jersey historically cheaper or not cheaper than New York in retail
prices.  You’re part of the New York Harbor market.  So we can compare
apples to apples at the wholesale level.  If you look at that, you can see that
wholesale RFG 87 -- that’s what has MTBE in it -- is around -- and this was for
90
Monday -- it can always vary a few pennies -- but around $1.70 on the
wholesale markets.  The blend stock for ethanol -- that’s supposedly expensive
blend stock that has -- that you use for ethanol, someone mentioned earlier.
It’s at about the same price, a couple of pennies difference.
If you look at the net cost of ethanol to refiners, it’s down to
basically $.70 a gallon.  That’s a dollar cheaper.  So if you displace 10 percent
of that gasoline portion that’s up at $1.70, with 10 percent of the ethanol
portion that’s now at $.70, that’s $.10 a gallon cheaper on the wholesale
market.  I can’t promise you that would get passed along to consumers.  You’d
have to talk to the people who market the gasoline for that.  But that is what
the market is showing now.  That’s delivered, that’s in New York Harbor,
that’s not somewhere in the Midwest.  So this is right here, this is--  You could
be buying this gas today.  It’s a phone call away.  I have plenty of members
who would be happy to ship the additional ethanol.  We ship most of the
ethanol into New Jersey right now, and it’s blended and sent into the New
York market.  They were talking about lead times earlier.  I just might note
that most of the transition that needs to be done is already done, because your
terminals are already set up and already using ethanol to supply to New York
and Connecticut markets.  And they’d be the same terminals that would supply
the New Jersey market.
I want to spend a little bit of time--  I appreciate your time here.
I want to spend a little bit of time on air quality, because we’ve heard so much
about how ethanol would increase air quality -- or increase smog or VOC
evaporation emissions, as if it were some sort of fact.
91
When you look at smog formation, you have to look at total smog-
forming emissions.  With ethanol, you heard a little bit about permeation.
And I know that there’s been a lot of paper floating around this building with
the word permeation in it.  There is a small and declining increase in permeation
emissions with the use of ethanol.  That’s been documented.  There’s further
research going on right now that the American Petroleum Institute,
Automobile Alliance, ethanol industry, California and others are in, to better
quantify it.  There is a small increase.  But that’s one subset of evaporative
emissions.
With reformulated gasoline, the volatility that I heard some people
mention in the summer is the same as it is now.  You have a different blend
stock.  So there are no more evaporative emissions from the volatility of
gasoline, whether you use ethanol or MTBE.  It’s federally capped -- it’s capped
by law.
Then you have the tailpipe side.  On the tailpipe, you get
additional reductions in ozone forming emissions with the use of ethanol,
reductions in VOCs, reductions in carbon monoxide, which the Blue Ribbon
Panel -- which you’ve talked about, other people have talked about -- said CO
tailpipe emissions could be the cause of -- is as much as about 30 percent of
smog.  When you take these into consideration, ethanol -- especially with the
fact you’re going to use 10 percent blends--  I know that was a question.
They’re already doing it in New York and Connecticut.  You use the same
thing here.  And I think the folks in the petroleum industry would back me up
that if you go to ethanol, it would almost undoubtedly be a 10 percent blend.
So that gives you additional oxygen, additional tailpipe reductions.  So if you
92
take these all in a whole, I can say confidently that smog forming emissions,
from a 10 percent ethanol RFG in New Jersey, will be at or, quite frankly,
below -- because you’ll have additional tailpipe benefits -- the current MTBE
blend you’re using today.  And that’s--  I think that’s backed up by a lot of
research.
If not, let’s look at the real data.  2004 is when they switched from
MTBE to ethanol in neighboring New York and Connecticut, and California.
If you look at the chart that I put in my testimony, ozone exceedances went
down dramatically in 2004.  I’m not saying that that’s a result of the use of
ethanol.  I think, for some reasons, it could have been partially to blame,
partially responsible in a good way.  But it certainly did not hinder this
dramatic improvement in air quality.
In fact, I know that CARB was recently touted as the expert on
these issues.  If you go to the CARB Web site, and you pull down their 2004
review of this data, you will see, “Fewest exceedance days ever.”  You will see
lower peak concentrations.  And, in fact, we all know the weather plays an
important role in smog formation.  So CARB, doing the job they do, also
looked at how did 2004 compare to other years with similar weather?  For
instance, 2003 was terrible weather for smog formation.  So when they
compared it to other years, smog exceedances dropped compared to other years
with similar weather.  So it wasn’t a weather factor.
So I think, if you look at that, you can see it.  In New York, you
went from 27, 39, 24 exceedances down to two last year.  And, again, I think
part of that probably had to do with additional oxygen from blending not just
at the 5.7 level, but at the 10 percent level.  So you can look at real-world data.
93
Was it ethanol?  I don’t have a study to prove it today, but we can
look at the data and know that the use of ethanol did not prevent these
reductions from happening.
I’ve taken up more than enough of your time.  I apologize for that.
But I just wanted to set the record straight on some of those things.  I think
there’s a strong track record to look at.  I think that you can look at the fact
that the investments made in New York and Connecticut, even in California --
a market of that size -- were all done within about a 12-month time frame.
They had more years of that of lead time.  But they only actually started doing
the work at about 12 months out.  And the fact that New Jersey already has
most of the work done, because of the transition in those markets -- and feel
confident that ethanol can seamlessly replace MTBE, if you decide that’s what
you need to do to protect your drinking water.
I thank you, and I’ll take any questions.
SENATOR SMITH:  Appreciate your comments.
One of the more striking things about today’s hearing is that
everybody -- and the people who are all here, I think with good faith and good
will, are trying to present what they believe to be the truth.  But we have
diametric lead points -- diametric points of view that we’re either going to have
more expensive or less expensive gasoline if ethanol is chosen to replace MTBE.
And we’re either going to have more air pollution or less air pollution.  And it’s
amazing that everybody is absolutely sincere in their beliefs and in their
testimony.
MR. SHAW:  I think--  If I could just say one thing, I think there’s
a lot of studies out there that come to these different conclusions.  And that’s
94
why I try to point -- look at the wholesale marketplace data today on gas
prices.  It is what it is.  That’s what your retailers or your marketers could buy
today.  It’s real.  It would be $.10 a gallon cheaper on the wholesale level.  And
on the air quality, I’d also mention they use 100 percent gasoline blended with
ethanol in Minnesota.  All these criteria pollutants -- from CO, to NOx, to
VOCs, that come down in the Wisconsin and Chicago markets where they’ve
been using ethanol as the oxygenate since the mid-’90s -- all of the ozone
occurrences have come down.  And, in fact, they’re very close to attaining -- to
becoming in attainment with the ozone standard.
So I would just urge you guys--  We could have studies out the
ears.  And you’ve certainly heard a lot today.  But look at the real-world track
record.  I think it has a pretty strong case to make.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your testimony.
Eric DeGesero, Fuel Merchants, with a question mark as the
statement as to what he’s supporting.
E R I C   D e G E S E R O:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
It’s been long, and I’ll be brief.
And to the point of the question mark, I wish I’d gone back and
reviewed the testimony that I’ve given over the years as the Legislature has
considered these types of bills.  And our position has been consistent all along
-- that we need to urge the Federal government to remove the 2 percent oxy
requirement in reformulated gasoline.  And it looks as if we’re on the way to
having that done.
Our vested interest in this is, we’re the small businesses that
supply gasoline.  And we can only sell what either the United States Congress
95
or the New Jersey Legislature mandates the major oil companies to make.  And
our concern is the cost-effective and efficient distribution of fuel.  We certainly
will have issues as it relates to: will there be co-mingling allowed, in terms of
storage and distribution, in a transfer process.  If you just flip the switch on
January 1, 2010, you’re still going to have gasoline -- assuming that --
whenever the effective date is -- you’re still going to have gasoline in the tanks
at your stations, at your bulk plants, on December 31, 2009, and will there be
an issue -- will we be allowed to co-mingle.  Because you could still have higher
than the five-tenths of a percent that the bill allows for, in terms of a transition
period.  So that’s a question just as far as the logistics of the distribution,
because there could be associated penalties with that for failure to comply, in
terms of distributing fuel.
Our members will certainly be customers of the ethanol plant that
is being considered.  We have members of our Association that are currently
getting into the biodiesel business.  So we are not hostile to ethanol in any way,
shape, or form.  But we’re just concerned about how an orderly transition to
it--
I would like to speak about the UST enforcement.  I will hopefully
have an answer 10 minutes after I walk out of this room, relative to what
Maryland’s requirements are.  In New Jersey, last year, the DEP instituted --
and we set up seminars with the DEP to come and explain this to our
members.  We now have requirements that spill buckets be monitored monthly
and before every delivery.  We have requirements on piping sumps and
dispenser sumps that, to the best of my knowledge, are the most stringent in
the country, as far as UST system regulations are concerned.  And the DEP is
96
looking actually at -- has put out a preproposal, for comment, on hydrostatic
testing of spill buckets.  Our concern is, we don’t even know if the systems
were designed to handle that type of evaluation.
So I would be very interested to hear what Maryland is doing that
is ahead of the curve, where New Jersey is certainly ahead of the curve.
SENATOR SMITH:  By the way, you’re absolutely on message
with the entire hearing -- the earlier testimony was that we’re the eighth worst
in the country.  And your testimony is, you think we’re one of the best.
MR. DeGESERO:  Well, Senator Smith, that’s only with regards
to the regulations.  But let’s get to the enforcement, because I think that’s
where they said we’re the eighth worst at.
The DEP -- and you can call the enforcement and compliance folks
over there.  They’re out doing the State’s two-vapor recovery, they’re out doing
complete system checks, they’ve shut down and fined distributors, as well as
shut down stations, including--
I mean, we always think that it’s the corner gas station that’s a
problem.  With all due respect, municipalities, county governments, police
departments, your local DPW--  That is where you’re going to find some
noncompliance issues, as well.  And the Department is out, very actively, right
now, today--  The money has been set aside.  That was discussed.  We’re the
eighth worst.  That was--  I’d like you to hear from the Department, what
they’re saying their track record, as far as enforcement, in the last 10 months,
12 months that they’ve been out on the--  I guess they started actively with the
beginning of this fiscal year, when the money actually transferred into the
Department’s account to do it.  So they have been quite aggressive.
97
Lastly, just a point of clarification, because it’s been mentioned a
couple times today, regarding the MTBE liability safe harbor in the Federal
bill.  Let’s be very clear that that safe-harbor provision is from defective
product lawsuits only.  It is not -- absolutely it is not for--  If you own a station,
you caused the discharge, you’re responsible for remediating it.  That bill in no
way, shape, or form, absolves you from remediating the problem that you
caused.
So, I thank you for your time.  It’s been a long day.  And I hope
to go have some ethanol mixed with water myself, Mr. Chairman.
Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  At some point today, when you do check
that other set of regulations--
MR. DeGESERO:  In Maryland.  I will certainly get to you.
SENATOR SMITH:  --it would be nice if you would send us a
little letter evaluating how you think New Jersey and the other state compares.
MR. DeGESERO:  I’ll begin the process later today.
SENATOR SMITH:  We’d appreciate that from your industry,
from your group.
MR. DeGESERO:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
SENATOR SMITH:  Pete Furey, New Jersey Farm Bureau.
Pete, my apologies to you.  I got a note that, in a certain order of
people, it would have been preferable to put up -- but they all turn in their
individual slips.  So as I was going through the slips, we ended up wiping that
out.  So I apologize to you for that, but we would very much like to hear from
the representative of the farmers of our state.
98
P E T E R   J.   F U R E Y:  Actually, I’d like to allow somebody to go in front
of me who has asked to catch a plane.
SENATOR SMITH:  Somebody has to catch a plane?  Who’s
that?
MR. FUREY:  That’s--
SENATOR SMITH:  Mr. Coleman.
B R O O K E   C O L E M A N:  Yes.
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay, you were next.  But that’s okay.
Mr. Coleman, from the Renewable Energy Action Project.
MR. COLEMAN:  Thanks for giving me an opportunity to speak
today.
I, like the others, will try to move as quickly as possible.
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure.
MR. COLEMAN:  My name is Brooke Coleman.  I’m the Director
of a national environmental coalition.
It’s about 35 groups from coast to coast.  We’ve worked on MTBE
bans in New York, Connecticut, and California.  We’ve worked for five years
on issues related to ethanol and MTBE, specifically in California.  I’ve been an
MTBE activist since 1997, when I worked for the San Francisco Chronicle to
bring this story in San Francisco.  At that point, 10,000 wells in California
were tainted with MTBE.
I’d like to talk quickly about air quality, because I know that’s one
of the issues on the agenda today.  My expertise is in air quality.  My group is
based in California, so I know a little something about California.
99
There’s some basics that you need to understand about the air
quality argument.  First of all, ethanol, by itself, is cleaner than gasoline.
When you put them side by side, you would rather drink ethanol.  The
problem comes -- and the perceived problems--
SENATOR SMITH:  Not even a close call.
MR. COLEMAN:  The perceived problem comes -- when you mix
the two things together, there’s a chemical reaction that takes place.  And this
is where you get into the theoretical side of the science on this, and why you
have people on both sides of the issue.  The question is, when you take the
cleaner fuel and you add it to the dirtier fuel, does the reaction make the
overall cumulative fuel worse, or is it overwhelmed by the benefits of adding
a cleaner fuel to a dirtier fuel?  So that’s the question.  And there’s a lot of
theory about that.
But in the end, the bottom line -- the biggest benefit that New
Jersey has, the luxury that New Jersey has that California didn’t have in 1998
-- that a lot of these states that have already banned MTBE did not have in the
past -- is that you have more than a dozen test dummy MTBE ban states.  So
you have an overarching amount, an overarching, sort of, blanket of empirical
evidence to look at.  So when you asked, did any of the other states that have
banned MTBE have air quality problems, the answer is no.
And let me tell you why the answer that was given--  California is
wrong.  California, in 2004, had a record smog day year.  That means they had
the fewest smog exceedance days in recorded history during a normal weather
year.  That’s one year.  They started blending ethanol on January 1, 2004.  But
100
when you start to look at it with all the other states--  Look at Connecticut, for
example.  And I do have some of the numbers here.
Let’s look at it.  Eight hour ozone -- 2001 to 2004 -- eight hour
ozone exceedance days dropped from -- went from 26 in 2001, to 36 in 2002,
to 14 in 2003, and now, when ethanol is being blended, six.  New York: 17 in
2001, 28 in 2002, 15 in 2003.  Ethanol blending in 2004: 1.  So you start to
see a pattern here between these numbers.
The other thing is, I was in California during the Federal rule
making -- during the state rule making process for California RFG 3, which
means I was there when ARB ran their Urban Airshed Model runs.  And
nonoxygenated fuel -- the fuel that would replace all these oxy fuels if the
waiver went through -- performed worse in increased smog in the air basins
that they ran those models in.  I was there in 2001 when ARB partnered with
the Automobile Alliance.  At the same time they were saying that NOx
emissions increased with ethanol blends, those car tests showed that NOx
emissions were reduced with ethanol blends.
Moving on, there’s another thing that people need to realize in this
scenario.  There are two fuel regulations, predominantly, in this country.  You
have the predictive model in California, and you have the complex model for
everywhere else, under EPA jurisdiction.  When you take a fuel, and you’re a
refiner and you want to blend that fuel, your fuel has to pass these models.  If
you have ethanol blends -- if you have an ethanol blended fuel in New York,
you can’t just show up and say, “By the way, my ethanol blended fuel increases
NOx.  Do you care?”  That’s what the regulation regulates.  That’s what it
prevents from happening.
101
So we have people all over California saying, “Oh my god.  Ethanol
is increasing NOx all over the place.”  NOx is the most controlled criteria
pollutant in the California predictive model, by far.  The California predictive
model is extremely sensitive to NOx.  So I seriously doubt whether an ethanol
blend is going to show up and sneak one by the computer model.
I’d like to also talk for a second about this unknown component
of today’s testimony.  Ethanol is easily the most studied gasoline additive.  You
want to put all these additives together.  There’s about a hundred of them in
base gasoline, then you’ve got MTBE and ethanol.  It is by far the most studied
additive -- by far in the whole mix.  We’ve been using it since the mid-’80s in
the Midwest.  The California Air Resources Board did two years -- an
exhaustive two-year study on the fate and transport of ethanol.  And,
sometimes, when you go to these state hearings -- and they’re all the same.
The same crew of people show up and say, “Hey, this is premature.”  Actually,
not.  This has been studied for two years.  Fate and transport includes what it
does in gasoline plumes, it includes what it does in pipelines.  I have had
several of the top brass at ARB look me straight in the eye and say, “In terms
of fate and transport, ethanol gets a ‘clean bill of health.’”  
I want to talk quickly about the landscape of these MTBE bans,
continuing where I’ve already started.  Again, we’ve worked on MTBE bans in
New York, California, and Connecticut, and several other states.  These bans
always start with this kind of bill.  And stakeholders -- the oil industry, MTBE
industry -- show up and try to complicate the process.  This is not a
complicated process.  Just ban the chemical.  California did it, even though
they were worried about doing it.  Petrified, you might add.  The governor was
102
wandering around -- Governor Davis, at the time, was wandering around going,
“If we don’t get this oxygen waiver, we’re going to have increases in gas prices
by $.50 a gallon.”  Well, now we have Valero Energy Company in California
admitting, in several major news stories, that ethanol extends supply and
reduces gas prices.
So there’s one important part of this that you have to take with a
grain of salt, these arguments that have been made already.  Pump price
increases--  We’ve been talking about pump price increases since 1998.  In
some of these areas, spot market prices are a buck a gallon less for ethanol.
There’s no possible way that pump price increases, in the current scenario --
that there are going be pump price increases in the current scenario.  And then,
if you really want to talk about it, if you really want to, sort of, get outside of
this issue, why in the world would the ethanol industry jack up their prices
beyond base levels in gasoline when they’re trying to grow an industry?  Do
you think they want you guys running out and going, “Ethanol is controlling
the gasoline market?”  We need to give you guys weapons to use against them
in a waiver request, or for that matter, in the foreseeable future.  I mean, that’s
sort of counterintuitive if you’re in the ethanol industry.
So the fruit of that, the obvious part of that is in California right
now, gas prices have gone through the roof.  And the ethanol industry has
increased their prices.  But their prices haven’t gotten anywhere near the
wholesale price of gasoline in that state.
Shipping and infrastructure:  There’s a lot of people that will show
up and say, “There’s shipping problems and infrastructure problems.”  But if
you actually call the shipping and infrastructure companies and ask them, “Is
103
there a shipping and infrastructure problem with ethanol?”  The answer that
they gave me, that they will probably give you is, “Why would we want there
to be -- why would we not want to accommodate the oil industry if they tell us
that next year they want to blend 6 percent ethanol?  That’s 6 percent of a
market share loss for us.  If they tell us what they’re going to do --”  and this
is a direct quote “-- we’ll do it.”  That’s common sense.
Second of all, air quality:  Again, for those that say there’s an air
quality problem, I invite them to point--  I mean, the obvious question is,
where?  We’ve been using it for two-and-a-half decades.  Where is the air
quality problem?  What they’re referring to -- I can refer a second to evap
emissions -- is a study that’s coming out of California that talks about what
happens in ethanol blends when you put them in cars and the cars have
evaporative emissions.
A word about evaporative emissions.  First of all, evaporative
emissions have been around forever.  Regulatory agencies have been pushing
car companies to seal their cars, seal their hoses, seal their seals for decades.
Nonoxygenated fuels evaporate.  So all of these fuels evaporate.  So the
question is, to what small degree -- and it is a small degree -- do ethanol blends
increase evaporative emissions?  And it’s a question that exists within the
model.  They need to account for it.  And in California, the irony here is that
they already have--  There is a factor in the predictive model that penalizes
ethanol blends for permeation emissions.  What they’re doing right now is
trying to improve that factor and make sure that it’s correct.
But for someone on the other side of the country to say, “Well,
actually, this permeation emissions--”  And the California Air Resources Board
104
is saying there’s permeation emissions, and they exist in their own right --
that’s not true.  They’re trying to improve their model.  They’re not
unaccounted for.
Water quality:  That’s the most interesting one I’ve heard -- that
ethanol is a problem, in terms of water quality and toxicology.  I’m not sure
that I’m even going to go there, because when we’re talking about a $29 billion
problem, that’s a water quality problem.  Talk to the folks at the Association
for California Water Resources about water quality problems.
Water quality, plume expansion, issues related to the toxic nature
of ethanol have all been studied in the two-year analysis of ethanol’s fate and
transport, and that chemical was given a clean bill of health.
And I ask you, while we’re on the subject, if you’re seeking a
waiver, what’s going to replace oxygenates?  No one asked that question.  The
answer I usually get is gasoline.  In actuality, if you take out MTBE and
ethanol, you have to replace the octane of those components.  Forget the fact
that they have to replace volume.  Something’s going in there, and it’s not
called gasoline.  It’s called aromatics, it might be called alcoholates.  But no one
has done a fate and transport study of those chemicals.  And that’s the mistake
we made with MTBE.
When we were using MTBE at 2 percent as an octane enhancer,
and the Federal government passed an oxygen standard, the oil industry said,
“Oh, we’ve already got this thing in gas --” behind closed doors “--and we’re
going to just crank the volume up; we’re going to sell this oxygen standard
thing,” no one looked into MTBE then.  No one looked into the water quality
problems.  Well, less is going on now.  Alcoholates are in gasoline, and they’re
105
basically proposing to increase alcoholate content several fold.  That’s their
solution to the oxygen problem.  Well, maybe we should look into that.
I also -- again, returning to an old theme here.  I think you have
to take some of the testimony today with a grain of salt, because this is the
same industry that marketed a defective product for 20 years.  A jury in San
Francisco has already found that.  It’s the same industry that concealed and
acted with malice--  They concealed information about the dangers of MTBE.
They have one goal in mind as these states continue to ban MTBE,
and that’s ringing the last almighty dollar out of states that continue to use it.
And I think New Jersey has to ask themselves whether they want to be one of
those states, or whether they want to join with the states from the North, New
York and Connecticut, and move away from this chemical.  It’s a simple
solution.  Just ban the chemical.  It’s been done.
It’s a relief to come here today and sit through a testimony when
other states have already done this.  Because in the past, representatives of
state governments have had the unenviable task of trying to figure out what
might happen in the future when nobody knows.  Now we know.
Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Coleman.
Pete Furey, New Jersey Farm Bureau.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Excuse me, Senator.  Can I just--
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, sir.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Some of the information that was just
given--  Was that submitted?  Do we have any written testimony on that?
MR. COLEMAN:  I could provide you with some.  I don’t.
106
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Would you please provide some of that,
because I was asking some questions about some numbers, and no one had
answers.  So I would like to have them.  Through the Chair, obviously.
SENATOR SMITH:  Not a problem.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  If you share that with us, we’ll share it with
the Committee members.
Mr. Furey.
MR. FUREY:  Senator Smith, Senator Sweeney, thank you very
much.
It has been a long hearing.  I’m distributing a statement.  I was
going to highlight that.  I think it’s self-explanatory.  Most of the points have
been made.  I’d like to use my time -- just a couple minutes -- to give some
observations about what we heard, if I may.
I think the diametrically opposed positions--  We’re coming from
the point of view that the Legislature really has little choice but to ban MTBE.
It’s a contaminant.  It’s not getting people sick, necessarily, it’s not a health
problem.  It’s a contaminant.
We come into this issue because there’s a lot of outlandish attacks
made against the ethanol industry.  And looking back on some of the
testimony here today, I think it’s correct to say it’s in good faith, but there’s --
I don’t know if it’s a bias, or pro-industry, or self interest.  But there should be
no hesitation or no concern about adopting a ban of MTBE because of a fear
of what would happen with ethanol.  I think the last speaker made that
107
abundantly clear.  We are now getting the empirical data to answer any of the
questions that have been raised.
I don’t have to go through about price, the logistics to New York.
The last speaker did a great job of talking about this bogeyman issue about air
quality in ethanol.  It’s not a--  It’s the same thing we would have now with
MTBE oxygenated fuel.
In the Federal energy bill, there’s concerns about the 2 percent
waiver.  I think Brooke makes a great point.  If you waive oxygenates, you put
a hole in your gasoline supply.  MTBE is a contaminant, so it’s just a matter
of time before it goes out.  So I think the renewable fuel standard in the
Federal bill, with the oxygenate waiver, answers some of these questions about
flexibility for the petroleum industry.  Nature will take its course.  Ethanol will
come in here.
But I think, in terms of New Jersey’s policy, you get on with
renewable fuels, you get on with the future, by banning MTBE.  Ethanol will
come in.  You won’t have price spikes, you won’t have adverse environmental
effects.  The last speaker said you do have the track record, and I think that
speaks volumes, as far as hearing two diametrically opposed views.  You have
a track record.
One last thing, with careful deference to this Committee and the
Chairman.  We just passed Highlands legislation for drinking water protection.
There’s some very strict standards in there.  It truly alarmed a lot of farmers,
their lands that -- unnecessary regulation -- new people calling the shots for the
way they run their business.  And we tried to temper that in the interest of the
108
long-term and experience we’ve had in trying to hold out for fair play.  And
you know that from our testimony.
But here we have an environmental issue that’s in the drinking
water.  Those people from Ringwood, I think, are the tip of the iceberg.  Why
do we have a 70 parts per billion standard?  New York is 10.  The EPA, that
everybody rails against, is 20 or 30.  We’re twice as high.  And we have just
passed Highlands legislation that’s 300-foot setbacks from streams, by the
chance that some building activity is going to contaminate the stream.  And
this is in the groundwater.  You talk about diametrically opposing views--
So we would think, from consistency and equity--  If you get on
with the business at hand, banning this as the sponsor has proposed -- and
have a lot of confidence that the fuel supply will be intact with oxygenates.
Ethanol is growing by 20 percent a year.  That’s answering questions as we go.
I think we might have an East Coast urban bias against ethanol.
A lot of what I heard today is just fear.  It doesn’t really add up.
That’s all I have.  Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Furey.
Dena Mottola.  (no response)
I guess Dena left.  Last call, no pun intended.
We appreciate everybody coming today.  You gave us lots of
information, lots of things to think about.  And your input makes all the
difference.
Oh, there’s Dena Mottola.
D E N A   M O T T O L A:  Hi.
109
I’m Dena Mottola, the Executive Director of New Jersey PIRG.
And the main thing I wanted to say is I just think that the bill needs one more
thing, which is--  Before we move forward, I think we should be doing a better
study of the air quality benefits.  We need to compare the air quality impact
of replacing MTBE with ethanol, versus no oxygenate at all.  That’s the main
thing, because I think that we’re hearing conflicting things.
Sorry, I just walked -- ran down the hall.
We’re hearing conflicting things.  The research is conflicting.
We’re hearing people from California saying one thing.  Some of my national
people, and the people -- experts I trust in the state -- are saying conflicting
things.  And I just think that we need to do the study.  I don’t think it would
take that much.  And the study needs to be, obviously, objective from any of
the industry groups, because some of the studies that they quote are not
completely objective.
And what we need to do is, we need to study the VOCs, the NOx,
air toxics, and CO2 separately and then decide what is the best solution.  I’d
like to see this bill being driven by air quality concerns, as well as water quality
concerns.  There’s no question we should ban MTBE.  I completely agree.  But
before we move to another solution, let’s be clear about what the impact is
going to be.  And I don’t think we know that.
You can’t point to the number of smog days in different states
over time.  Even we’ve said it to this Committee in the past, on other air
quality issues we’ve worked on -- you can’t look at that.  Weather plays such
a role in smog days, because--  In New Jersey, any day that’s over 85 or 90
degrees is a smog day.  And then, of course, every year the weather is different
110
and the temperature of the outside air is different.  So I would say that I think
this bill needs more analysis before we can really move forward.  And that’s, at
this point, why we are opposed to it.
Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Again, thank you all for your participation
today.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  Might I say just--
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, Senator Sweeney.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  I’m going to let you go.
MS. MOTTOLA:  I’m sorry.
SENATOR SWEENEY:  But I think there is enough historical
data, now that you have 19 or 18 states that have banned it and that have put
something in place to ban MTBE -- I guess I got it right.
And the other thing that really has to be looked at -- and it was
touched on earlier -- is, if you take MTBE out, you have to replace it with
something for one reason.  You’re going to drive your fuel cost through the
roof if you don’t do it, because you’re going to have to make up that
consumption.  That burns as well as everything else, and it has to be made up.
So there is a price to banning MTBE.  You need something to take its place.
Thank you.
SENATOR SMITH:  Thanks to all.
(MEETING CONCLUDED)
