Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office,
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey
Committee Meeting
of
ASSEMBLY ENVIRONMENT AND SOLID WASTE COMMITTEE
“Testimony related to the potential license extension for the
Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station”
LOCATION:
DATE:
Lacey Township Middle School
February 10, 2005
Forked River, New Jersey
7:00 p.m.
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT:
 
Assemblyman John F. McKeon, Chair 
Assemblyman Michael J. Panter, Vice Chair 
Assemblyman Robert M. Gordon 
Assemblyman John E. Rooney 
ALSO PRESENT:
 
Carrie Anne Calvo-Hahn 
David Eber
Thea M. Sheridan
Office of Legislative Services 
Assembly Majority
Assembly Republican
Committee Aide
Committee Aide
Committee Aide
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Donald Louria, M.D.
Professor
Department of Preventative Medicine and Community Health
University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, and
Member
Board of Directors
Nuclear Policy Research Institute
8
Rod Sterling
Private Citizen
11
Regina Discenza
Private Citizen
13
Roger Gayley
Private Citizen
15
Lynn Bauchkey
Private Citizen
16
Michael Button
Private Citizen
19
Jeffrey Brown
Private Citizen
21
Mary Jensen
Private Citizen
23
Stephen M. Lazorchak
Private Citizen
26
John Magee
Engineering Director
Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station
29
Edward G. Morris
Private Citizen
31
James Fleury
Private Citizen
32
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page
Marilyn Fontanetta
Private Citizen
35
Jack Nosti
President
Lacey Township Republican Club
37
Edith Gbur
President
Jersey Shore Nuclear Watch
39
Donald Posey
Private Citizen
41
Paula Gotsch
Representing
Grandmothers, Mothers, and More for Energy Safety
42
Jim Schmidling
Private Citizen
45
Ed DiMarco
Representing
Jersey Shore Nuclear Watch
47
Betty Ann Mace Kearney
Private Citizen
50
Michele R. Donato, Esq.
Private Citizen
51
John Clark
Private Citizen
54
Reverend Christopher L. Miller
Representing
New Jersey United Methodist Church, and
New Jersey Council of Churches
56
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page
Bob Artz
Senior Nuclear Chemist
Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station
57
Grace Costanzo
Vice President
Jersey Shore Nuclear Watch
59
Sara Bluhm
Director
Energy and Federal Affairs
New Jersey Business and Industry Association
61
Nicole Simmons
Water Policy Analyst
Clean Ocean Action
64
David Chernesky
Maintenance Manager
Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station
67
Kelly McNicholas
Program Coordinator
New Jersey Chapter
Sierra Club
68
Lynn Newton
Environmental Manager
Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station
70
Kevin Kamps
Nuclear Waste Specialist
Radioactive Waste Project
Nuclear Information and Resource Service
72
Buddy Thoman
Business Agent
Local 94
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
76
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page
Gary Quinn
Mayor
Lacey Township
78
Suzanne Leta
Energy Associate
New Jersey Public Interest Research Group
83
David Most
Member
Economic Development Committee
Lacey Township
85
Wyatt Earp
President
Monmouth and Ocean Counties Central Labor Council
New Jersey State AFL-CIO
87
Wayne Romberg
Private Citizen
90
Paul Gunter
Director
Reactor Watchdog Project
Nuclear Information and Resource Service
91
William Costanzo
Representing
Jersey Shore Nuclear Watch
93
APPENDIX:
Testimony
submitted by
Stephen M. Lazorchak
1x
Reports
submitted by
James Fleury
22x
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
APPENDIX (continued)
Page
Letter addressed to
Members of Assembly Environment and Solid Waste Committee
from
Edith Gbur
57x
The Bill Kearney Story
submitted by
Betty Ann Mace Kearney
59x
Letter addressed to
Members of Assembly Environment and Solid Waste Committee
from
Sara Bluhm
61x
Letter addressed to
Members of Assembly Environment and Solid Waste Committee, plus
Position Paper from
Nicole Simmons
63x
Outline
submitted by
Kevin Kamps
76x
Testimony
submitted by
Suzanne Leta
77x
Report
submitted by
Paul Gunter
81x
Statement
submitted by
Congressman Dennis J. Kucinich
Ohio 10th Congressional District
94x
Statement
submitted by
Save Barnegat Bay
96x
rs: 1-104
1
ASSEMBLYMAN JOHN F. McKEON (Chair):  Welcome to
everyone.  And I should be saying thank you for welcoming us.
I’m going to start by thanking Mayor Gary Quinn.  Mayor Quinn,
and the entire governing body of Lacey Township, are at their borough hall
where they have very important budget hearings this evening.  I know that
they’re taping these proceedings so they can have an opportunity to review
them.
I believe Mayor Quinn’s going to do his best, before we adjourn
this evening, to get here to make a public statement and express his opinion
to the Committee.  But we did have a chance, just a while ago, over at Oyster
Creek. 
The members of the Committee, who I’m going to have -- give
themselves the opportunity to introduce themselves to you and to their
districts -- met over at Oyster Creek today, about 4:30.  I’d like to thank all of
those incredibly gracious and professional individuals over at Oyster Creek,
particularly the Site Vice President, Bud Swenson.  Bud, along with his
management team, led the members of the Assembly that were present, along
with our staff members.  We also brought Mr. Kent Tosch with us, who’s the
Manager of the New Jersey State DEP, Bureau of Nuclear Engineering
Department, to add some professionalism, along with all of us.  And, in effect,
we were able to tour all the various aspects of the plant to help us further
clarify things in our own mind, relative to the evaluative process that we’ve
undertaken.
Let me just take a moment to--
2
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER FROM AUDIENCE:  Can we start
off with the Pledge of Allegiance, please?
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Sir, I’m going to have everybody
introduce themselves.
I’m going to tell you all now, I expect everybody to conduct
themselves in a dignified and orderly fashion.  I understand the passion that
this issue brings -- those who feel the very safety of their families and those
around them are at risk, others who are thinking not only of safety but, of
course, their own professional livelihoods and the livelihood of this
community.
That having been said, if the people do not conduct themselves
correctly, then they’re going to be asked to leave and be escorted by the State
Troopers -- from doing so.  So if one would like to speak, that will happen
when their name is called, and they will go to the microphone.
I’m going to start off by limiting everybody to five minutes of
time.
The Committee is going to do its best.  We learn a lot more by
listening than speaking.  So, after this introduction, most of what we’ll do is
call names and then just listen.  We’ll also do that in reverse order.  The
individuals that we’ve asked to sign up to testify have stated either in favor or
against.  So we’re going to be balanced in listening to both sides, to the extent
possible, in alternating order.
The other thing we’re going to try to do is, by looking at the town
of your residence -- is the reason for being here, beyond to all of us wanting to
take the tour, as opposed to going to Trenton in the middle of the afternoon,
3
when it would be very difficult for working people to get there -- is for the
people that are local to Lacey and to this county to be heard from.  So we’re
going to weight things relative to people that are most local to this area.
So with that, I’ll start to my right. 
Assemblyman Rooney.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  Thank you very much.
I want to thank everybody for having us here.
It was an interesting tour that we went on.  It’s my first trip to a
nuclear power plant.  I was impressed, especially by the security of--
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER FROM AUDIENCE:  Can’t hear you.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  I’m sorry.
Thank you for inviting me here.
I just came from my first tour of a nuclear power plant.  I was very
impressed, especially by the security getting in.
We’re here to listen, as the Chairman said.
I’ll just give you a little bit of my background.  I happen to be the
Dean of the Assembly.  I’ve been there for 23 years.  I’ve chaired this and other
committees similar to it on hazardous waste.  And I’ve dealt with issues of this
magnitude for a long time.
Again, we’re here to listen, so I’m not going to say anything
further.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  John, your district, just so
everybody knows.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  I’m sorry.  I’m from District 39,
which is Northeast Bergen County.  We have 28 towns in the district. 
4
I was at a Committee meeting this morning in Teaneck on
transportation issues on rail freight, and the noise, and the pollution associated
with it.  So I’m going from one situation where we’ve had problems with
neighbors to another.
So thanks again for inviting me.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Go all the way to my left,
Assemblyman Gordon.
ASSEMBLYMAN GORDON:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Good evening, everyone.  Thanks for coming out this evening.
I’m Assemblyman Bob Gordon.  I represent the 38th district,
which is Central Bergen County, 13 towns stretching roughly from Paramus
and Fairlawn in the west, across Bergen County to the Hudson and Fort Lee,
Cliffside Park, and Edgewater.
Professionally, I am a consultant in the field of emergency
management, so I have a keen interest in the emergency management issues
surrounding nuclear power plants and chemical facilities.
While the State may not have much jurisdiction over licensing
issues, we certainly do have a lot to say about the safety, and evacuation
planning, and security of nuclear power plants and other high-risk facilities.
And I’m going to be focusing much of my attention in that area.
Again, thank you very much for coming here and for sharing your
views with us.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Assemblyman Panter.
ASSEMBLYMAN PANTER:  Good evening, everyone.
5
My name is Michael Panter.  I’m an Assemblyman.  I guess I
represent the southern most district among my colleagues up on the panel
here. I represent central New Jersey, from Redbank in the east in Monmouth
County, all the way out through the Mercer County towns of East Windsor
and Hightstown.  So my district is kind of a wide swath across the entire part
of central New Jersey.
Just to reiterate what Bob said -- because I don’t want to say too
much -- the purpose of us being here is really to hear from you and not vice
versa.  This has been a process that I’ve been invested in and had an interest
in for some time, given the proximity of my district to Ocean County, and to
Lacey itself.
We’ve had one public hearing which took place -- and many of you
were probably there, because I see some familiar faces -- just about two months
or so ago.  We have toured the plant, as John mentioned, and have really had
the benefit of speaking with a number of folks on both sides of this issue.  And
I think that although -- as Assemblyman Gordon said -- this will ultimately be
the decision of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, this is not the type of
decision, regardless of where you stand on this issue, that New Jersey can be
passive about.  Because the reality is that this is in our backyard.  And for
better or worse, whether we support Oyster Creek and believe it should
continue to function, or whether we believe there are concerns that we have to
voice to the Federal government, I think New Jersey has to have a very loud
voice.
But this Committee is committed -- and John McKeon has done
an excellent job at this, in my opinion -- of making sure that we don’t jump to
6
any conclusions.  Because none of us -- although we have a keen interest in the
environment, and it’s the policy area we focus on in Trenton -- none of us are
nuclear physicists.  Ultimately, none of us are security experts.  But we need
to know to ask the right questions, and to hear from you who live in the
community, and what you think we should be focusing on so that we are
adequately representing your views.
So I look forward to hearing from you tonight.  And thank you
very much for the hospitality of having us here in Lacey.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you much, Assemblyman,
for your kind words.
And I should have introduced myself before.  I’m John McKeon,
and I represent the 27th district.  And I have the privilege to be the Chairman
of the hardest working Committee in the Legislature, bar none, relative to our
taking our act on the road, so to speak, quite frequently.  We did the same
relative to our evaluative process on the Highlands legislation, and will
continue to do so here.
As Assemblyman Panter indicated, we met once, for about four or
five hours, in Brick.  We’re here tonight in Lacey, as we promised we would
that day, as we did to many of the employees that were there.
Assemblyman Manzo, from Hudson County, a member of this
Committee--  We think he’s still trying to sneak into the plant, and he’s being
beaten and tortured as we speak.  But he couldn’t be here, but will come down
to take that tour, as will Assemblyman Gusciora, who is from Mercer County,
who rounds out the members of our Committee who will take the tour and also
continue.
7
I know there will be at least two more public hearings, potentially
three, one of which will take place in Trenton.  That will be a joint Committee
hearing with our Committee on Homeland Security.  We’re going to tap into
their expertise, relative again to help in our whole evaluative process.
So one thing I promise each and every one of you -- although we
bring opinions, like we do as jurors or otherwise when we’re so selected or serve
in that regard -- none of us are predisposed to make a decision, one way or the
other, as far as what our recommendation ultimately will be to the NRC.
That’s why we’re here to listen.
So, again, I thank you for being here.  It’s very important to us to
do, hopefully, the right thing.
And I’m going to start.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  Just--
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Oh, John, go ahead, please.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  One additional comment.  I forgot
to thank my navigator for getting me here tonight.
I’m also the Mayor of Northvale.  He happens to be a Councilman
in Northvale, but he also happens to be one of your neighbors.  He has a
summer place here in Lacey Township.  Councilman Wayne Warrington, from
Northvale, accompanied me today.  So he has the job of getting me home
tonight -- figure out a way to get back.
Thank you.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Okay.
I’m going to start with Dr. Donald Louria.
8
Dr. Louria, when you come up to the microphone, just please,
again, repeat your name for the record, your address.  And, again, try to keep
it to five minutes.
As we get further into the evening, we might start to make it two
and three, because I’d really like everybody to be heard.
D O N A L D   L O U R I A,   M.D.:  Thank you.
I’m Dr. Donald Louria, from the Department of Preventative
Medicine at the New Jersey medical school.  And I’m going to cover some
generic issues that include this particular plant.
My view is that--
I should say that I speak for myself, not for the University of
Medicine and Dentistry.  I do speak for the Nuclear Policy Research Institute.
I believe that this plant should be closed and that we should close
all nuclear power plants and not build any other.  And there are four reasons
for that conclusion.
First relates to the issue of whether or not those living within 10
to 15 miles of a given nuclear power plant are safe, or whether there is an
increased risk of certain cancers.  There are now multiple credible studies
around nuclear weapons facilities, around nuclear fuel reprocessing facilities
with unintentional -- that is, accidental -- releases -- Three Mile Island.  And
there are two studies -- one in the United States, one in the United Kingdom --
indicating increased cancer rates around plants that have had no unusual
emissions.  And, presumably, the findings relate to their routine emissions.
Now, these are all controversial.  So has it been proved that those
around the plants are at risk of increased cancer?  Answer: no.  Is there a
9
concern that this might be the case?  The answer is, yes.  Do we need more
studies with larger numbers of plants and larger numbers of people before we
can draw any conclusions that are definitive?  Answer: absolutely.  But can
anyone treat the findings of these studies dismissively and say, dogmatically,
that there is no danger to those living within 10 to 15 miles of nuclear plants
in the United States?  The answer is that nobody can make such a statement.
Number two:  These plants are accidents waiting to happen.  As
you all know, one-quarter of the plants in the United States have been out of
service for periods of a year or more because of safety or design concerns.  I
think you could say with certainty that, sooner or later, there are going to be
one or more significant accidents with release of substantial amounts of
radiation.
Number three:  These plants are attractive to terrorists.  That
applies not only to the plant, but also to the materials that are stored -- the
spent fuel rods.  And there is no certainty that we are secure enough against
that kind of attack.
Fourth, and my major concern -- as it has always been -- is that
these plants are inherently dangerous, and they carry with them unacceptable
dangers because of the high level nuclear waste.  And we, as everybody in this
room knows -- we have no way of solving the problem of high-level nuclear
waste.
And I would point out that, if Yucca Flats ever opens, that on the
day it opens, we will need, for the future in the United States -- the future of
the next few decades -- two more repositories.  At least one of which is likely
to be built in the East, because that’s where most of the plants are.  And I
10
would submit that if any state, including the State of New Jersey, has nuclear
power plants emitting substantial amounts of high-level waste -- that that state
must be prepared to consider itself as a potential candidate for a high-level
nuclear waste repository.  And I don’t think that’s anything that the
Legislature or the citizens of New Jersey would like.
So my summary is that because we have this problem that nobody
has been able to solve, and because these plants are, therefore, inherently
dangerous, I would submit that ones that exist should be closed and no new
ones should be built.
Now, if anyone is going to say something like that, then there has
to be one addition.  Do we have viable alternatives?  Well, the answer is, yes.
The plants in New Jersey, all of them, supply about 8 percent of our energy.
This plant supplies well less than 1 percent of our energy.  We could cope with
that issue easily by proper conservation in the State of New Jersey. 
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Professor, I’m going to ask that you
wrap it up the best you can.
DR. LOURIA:  Yes.
I would submit that what we ought to be doing is supporting
environmentally friendly generation of energy, and that we should be
supporting 
newer 
technologies: 
hydrogen, 
fusion, 
possibly 
even
nanotechnology, that are far less dangerous and much more environmentally
friendly.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Professor, thank you for being here.
11
And I appreciate--  You know, I’m not going to be a tyrant up here
and ask you not to applaud.  But the best you can hold off -- it would be
helpful, because more people would get a chance to speak.
Mr. Sterling, former mayor, I believe, of Forked River.
And on deck is Regina Discenza.
Mayor, welcome.
R O D   S T E R L I N G:  Good evening.  Thank you very much.
There are some issues that come about -- that it’s very, very easy
to oppose, it’s very, very easy to jump on.  And I’m not referring to the
physician that just spoke -- private citizens.  I’m talking about those in elected
office.
As an example of those issues, we might take, for example, the
Martin Luther King holiday of some years back; the Megan’s Law, here in New
Jersey--  Not being opposed to either of those things, but both of them rushed
through the various legislative bodies.  Very few people wanted to stand up and
say they were opposed to either of those things.
The political issue is, this has come about -- is filled with this--
There’s a great many local elected officials that have opposed the power plant.
They do so without training and without a downside to coming out, because
even people that are not particularly upset by the existence of the plant,
nevertheless, do not take them to task for having come out in opposition to the
plant.
Now, I have no training whatsoever in nuclear engineering.  But
I am well acquainted with the people that have served here at this plant.  You’ll
never hear the opponents talk about the fact that the NRC has engineers here
12
on a permanent basis.  They don’t come around and inspect every six months
or every three months.  They’re here on a day-to-day basis.  That’s their job --
just to oversee this plant.
These people graduated from Stevens, MIT, Caltech, Georgia
Tech.  They’re very well trained and highly qualified to do it.  And yet, people
come out and indicate that they don’t know what they’re doing -- people that
have no training themselves and cannot pinpoint the thing.
The gentleman that spoke before me -- the physician, for example
-- came up and gave -- he spoke in opposition, as is his right.  And he was
introduced as a doctor, and yet he gave no scientific evidence.  He talked about
somebody proving something to the contrary, which is an impossibility to do.
There is no evidence of this.  Public safety must come first, must
come first.  Regardless of any economic factors or anything else, it must come
first.  But as far as, like, creating other agencies, having other studies done--
That’s what the NRC is for.  If, in fact, somebody feels that their techniques,
their methods are flawed, then we ought to deal with defense about that.  I
don’t really see any evidence of that.  And, consequently, I feel that we ought
to rely upon these people who have to breath the same air that we do. 
Corruption doesn’t seem, to me, to be a common factor in a
Federal agency such as the NRC.  It might occur elsewhere, but it seems highly
unlikely that it would occur there.  I feel these are the people that have been
trained, these are the people that have been hired to protect us in these issues,
and that’s who we should rely upon.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.  (applause)
13
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Mayor, thank you for your
statements.
Ms. Discenza, thank you for being here.
And Roger Gayley, you’re going to be next.
R E G I N A   D I S C E N Z A:  Thank you very much for allowing me to
speak early.
My name is Regina Discenza, and I live in the Sunrise Beach
section of Forked River, east of Route 9, within three miles of Oyster Creek.
Tonight I speak as a private citizen and Lacey resident.  I’d like to
speak to you about what I feel is a completely unworkable evacuation plan.
A little over two years ago, I formed a group, The Concerned
Citizens of Lacey, when we found out the Township had received plans for a
very large retail center, 300,000 square feet, only nine-tenths of a mile from
my home, which would include a Home Depot at the corner of Sunrise
Boulevard and State Route 9.  The traffic projected for this site, at peak
Saturday shopping hours, was 6,000 cars.  We have extreme difficulty getting
from one end of town to the other now.
A short time later, another developer came along with a proposal
for a 157,000 square foot Wal-Mart on the site of the former Good Luck Farm
in Lanoka Harbor, on Route 9, at Haines Street.  Projected peek traffic for this
development: 11,000 cars per day.
Growth in Lacey is taking place at an incredible rate.  The
Township is chasing ratables to replace the loss of Oyster Creek, should it
close. Open or closed, I think Oyster Creek presents a radiation risk as long as
their trash, the spent fuel rods, lie out on the front lawn.
14
With more than 10 major projects on the horizon, Lacey is not
being a considerate neighbor to its own residents, nor its Ocean County
neighbors.  The evacuation plan is unworkable and insufficient now.  Our
infrastructure cannot support the current traffic flow.  How can the evacuation
plan work efficiently?  It’s impossible with a two-lane road.
The plan states a 10-mile summer evacuation would take nine-and-
a-half hours.  How can this be accomplished with all the pending growth?  The
evacuation plan, in my opinion, is antiquated to begin with.  It contains
population statistics that are 14 years old, at least it did when I read it.
Sometimes it can take us 30 minutes to go four miles north or
south on Route 9 when traffic is very bad.  What will it be like after Lacey adds
approximately a million square feet of retail space and almost 1,000 new
homes?  The details of these projects were on my written statement submitted
December 2.
All of this growth is going to take place on our main roads.  A
power plant on a two-lane road all these years--  Measures should have been
taken to widen Route 9 over the past 30 years, or limit Lacey’s growth.  San
Onofre, in California, has an eight-lane interstate next to it.  Diablo Canyon
has a 12-mile access road, no homes.
How do I know this?  My cousin has been in nuclear power for
over 20 years.  He worked the reactor at Oyster Creek briefly in the early ’80s.
I asked him several years ago whether or not Oyster Creek should be closed.
He told me yes.  When I asked him why, he gave the two logical reasons I hear
over and over.  “The reactor is obsolete, and the power it produces is minimal.”
15
I never feared nuclear power until 9/11.  But if anyone has ever
been to the U.N. building in Manhattan, at the start of their tour in the lobby
area, on display, are items from Hiroshima.  No one wants to see any kind of
radiation disaster.
Please consider that evacuation plan carefully.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much for your
testimony.
Mr. Gayley.
And on deck is Lynn Bauchkey, from Bayville.
I’m really sorry if I’m mispronouncing names.
R O G E R   G A Y L E Y:  Good evening, everyone.  I want to thank you for
the opportunity to speak.
My name is Roger Gayley.  I’m a local resident of Lacey Township.
I actually live in Lanoka Harbor, about two miles from the power plant.  And
I work at the power plant. 
My primary reason for coming here--  I had a big decision to make.
Do I come here, or do I go celebrate with my family my daughter’s straight A
grades again for this marking period -- for this very marking period?
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  I’m glad we called you soon,
because I want you to go home and celebrate with your family as soon as you
testify.
MR. GAYLEY:  It’s too late.  They’re already celebrating at the
Chinese restaurant.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Bad choice, sir.  You just lost it.
16
MR. GAYLEY:  No, it’s not a bad choice.  It’s important to me. I
weighted back and forth.
Really, why I came up here is a couple of reasons.  First of all, I
want to thank you all very much -- very, very much for coming down and
touring the plant.  I was here -- Brick in December, and I suggested you come
down, and you did.  And I’m really, really happy about that.
And I know, having -- working at the plant -- I saw some of you
folks come in towards the end of the day. 
You’ve seen the plant now.  You’ve talked to the people.  And I
feel good about the fact that you now have real information about what is
going on down there.  I know you folks all have families to deal with.  You
came out here.
That’s what I want to say.  I want to say thanks a lot for coming
down.
Thanks.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much.  It was nice
of you.
Get home to your daughter.
Ms. Bauchkey.
And, Michael Button, we’re going to ask you to be next.
L Y N N   B A U C H K E Y:  My name is Lynn Bauchkey.  I’m a resident
from Bayville, New Jersey. 
I just want to give you a little explaination of how I came to this
point.
17
Back on June 10 of last year, I was very concerned about the
problem with Route 9, with the traffic.  The DOT held a meeting at our
Central Regional High School.  Why?  Development pressures and traffic
congestion are increasing at unmanageable rates.  We need initiative -- long-
term solutions to maintain our community’s quality of life.
From there, I went to the Ocean County Sheriff Department’s
meeting on July 21.  I learned that they were going to put my son and the
other children from Bayville School on buses and take them to Ocean County
College.  We do not have enough buses to start our four elementary schools at
the same time.  How are we possibly going to safely get all of our children to
the college?
Another issue is--  My mom’s with me.  She’s a senior.  We have
the largest senior population in the state.  If anything happens, our seniors
aren’t going to go anywhere.  Most of us aren’t going to go anywhere.  There’s
no way there’s enough buses here to take us anywhere.
The population has exploded since the plant opened in 1969.  The
roads have stayed the same.  There’s nowhere to go.  I’m a hostage to Route 9,
with the rest of the people that live in Bayville.
A couple of weeks ago, we had an impending snowstorm.  I was
smart enough to get out early.  I returned home at 10:00 in the morning.  It
was bumper to bumper traffic just to get provisions for a snowstorm.
If anything happens, whether it be the nuclear plant or anything,
we don’t have an evacuation route here.  There’s nowhere to go.  People will
be killing one another to survive.  That’s what will happen.
18
I attended the meeting in Brick, and I must say that I feel bad for
the workers of the plant.  I understand that when the new company took over,
half the workforce was cut.  I’m curious as to what happened to those people,
and I feel bad for those people.  I also feel bad for the 450 people that, if the
plant does close, will lose their jobs.  But I’m told that there is funds that will
help take care of the workers.  And when they took the job, they knew that the
license was going to expire in 2009.
I drive through my town of Bayville, on Route 9, by Huntington’s,
which is a restaurant.  And it says -- from the plant -- Oyster Creek employees
-- “Save our Jobs.”  As a resident of Bayville and Ocean County, I would love
to put one next to it that says, “Please Save Our Lives,” because if anything
happens, we’re not going to go anywhere.
And everyone is telling you about 9/11.  Well, let me tell you
something.  If the terrorists, whether it be domestic or international, hit our
area in the summertime, it’s going to be a gold mine for them, and it’s going
to be far worse than 9/11 ever could be.  So I do ask you that if you could
possibly bring to the attention of the NRC that we are overpopulated, we don’t
have an effective evacuation route -- because they do not look at that when
they’re going to give them another 20 years.  And I beg of you to please bring
this to their attention.
And one more thing before I end.  It was yesterday’s Viewpoint,
from a resident from Berkley Township--  I don’t know the man, but I do want
to say what he says, because I think it sums it all up.  “Most don’t want the
nuclear plant.  In all the discussion of the Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating
Plant in Lacey, one thing remains constant.  The only people in favor of
19
keeping it running are those who benefit financially from its operation.”
That’s from a Mr. Thorpe (phonetic spelling), from Berkley.  I have no idea
who he is.  I applaud him, because I also agree.
Thank you very much.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much for your
testimony.
Mr. Button.
And next will be Jeff Brown.
M I C H A E L   B U T T O N:  Thank you.
I’m Mike Button, from Toms River, New Jersey.  I’m a 20-year
resident of Ocean County.  I’ve lived in Lanoka Harbor.  I currently live in
Toms River.  I want to also thank you for coming down and not just visiting
the plant, but also coming down to Lacey Township, and visiting with the local
municipality that hosts the plant and has hosted the plant for 35 years, and
also listening to the concerns of your constituents, which I think is very
important.  And I know taking time away from your own family to serve us is
very important.  So I appreciate that.
I just want to speak to you today as an environmentalist.  As I was
growing up in Vermont as a child, I was a very strident environmentalist.  And
the technology of nuclear energy was kind of intriguing to a lot of us as we
were growing up, because it was viewed as the environmental technology.  I
have worked in this industry for 25 years, and I can still consider this
technology to be the cleanest technology available today.
This plant is in the best condition it ever has been, and continues
to improve over time.  This is proven by the collective radiation exposure of
20
the workers that work there this year.  Last year -- our refueling outage -- we
had the lowest dose ever in the history of the plant since its early operations.
That is a testimony to the fact that we are constantly replacing components,
cleaning components, and improving the performance of those components.
The operators and technicians that work at the plant are the most
highly trained of any industry.  To give you an example of what I’m talking
about, think about the reactor operators that work at the plant.  Reactor
operators at the plant go through approximately two years of training prior to
being allowed to sit through their license exam.  That training includes not
only the fundamentals of math, physics, sciences that are required to support
the technology, but the detailed operation of every system in that plant.  They
need to physically walk down every area of the plant and perform on-the-job
performance training and evaluation.  They get evaluated not only by our own
training staff, but by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission that performs these
job performance measures.
They perform on an replica simulator.  There’s an exact replica of
the plant control room, and they practice on that every six weeks.  They
perform training to fulfill their obligations.  They take those obligations very
seriously.  I observe the performance of these operators on a routine basis, and
I can tell you the behaviors that they exhibit are top-notch.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission keeps a good eye on this
process.  The operators are not only licensed by the NRC, but the NRC tests
them on a periodic basis to ensure that they still meet those requirements, and
will revoke the license if they do not meet those requirements.
21
And, lastly, I’d just like to talk about why it’s important to have
a plant such as this in Lacey Township.  Lacey Township needs a good
neighbor.  As an industrial facility -- as a ratable -- it’s very important to have
a neighbor such as Oyster Creek.  Oyster Creek’s operation in this area has
been very quiet compared to other facilities.  You were talking about -- earlier
about the rail service and the noise from that.  I would defy you to talk to the
neighbors of the plant in Lacey Township -- what makes more noise: the Wawa
that sits down the road a quarter mile or the nuclear power plant?  The power
plant is quieter.  I would ask you, if you were sitting next to a gas station up
on Route 9, up the road, what smells worse: the gas station or the nuclear
power plant.  The nuclear power plant smells better.
The discharge of Oyster Creek -- we’ve not had a liquid discharge
in approximately 20 years.  We take all the water that is used in the plant, we
reprocess it, filter it, and put it back in the plant.  We have a very high concern
for the environment, and we respect the environment that we work in.
I appreciate, again, your time.  And thank you very much.
(applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much, Mr. Button.
Mr. Brown.
And Mary Jensen will be next.
Jeff Brown.
J E F F R E Y   B R O W N:  Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr.
Chairman and members of the Committee.
As a resident of Brick Township, as a former resident of Bergen
County and Essex County -- both in your districts -- and as a citizen of the
22
United States, I am petitioning the Governor, through you and this Committee
-- one, to oppose the renewal of the Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station’s
operating license.
Two, to operationalize this opposition and represent the best
interests of the citizens of New Jersey during the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission’s license renewal process by appointing and fully funding a New
Jersey Oyster Creek decommissioning task force, including representatives
from the Attorney General’s Office, the Department of Environmental
Protection, and Board of Public Utilities and its Clean Energy Council, the
Assembly Environment and Solid Waste Committee, local citizen groups, and
other public interest organizations as deemed appropriate.
Three, to insist that Oyster Creek’s full decommissioning fund,
currently amounting to more than $400 million, be utilized in order to
completely decommission the Oyster Creek plant, so that the site is restored
to its original environmental quality, and so that workers who may lose their
jobs receive a just compensation package.  AmerGen/Exelon should not be
allowed to mothball the plant and its contaminated components, as the
company has threatened to do, nor should they be allowed to pocket any of
this ratepayer-funded decommissioning fund.
Four, to require that AmerGen/Exelon reinforce the vulnerable fuel
pool, which sits over the reactor itself, sufficiently to withstand, at minimum,
an airline attack comparable to the assault on the World Trade Center on 9/11.
Five, to vigorously enforce any and all laws and regulations that
might reduce the plant’s risk to public health, safety, and environmental well-
being, including the Clean Water Act.
23
Six, to provide adequate financial support to the Radiation and
Public Health Project so that it can expand its baby teeth study to include
enough teeth to assure its statistical reliability.  Both of the DEP’s established
monitoring systems, the CREST system and the TLDs, monitor for gamma
radiation, not beta radiation like strontium-90.  All 32 of these monitors lie
within 2.8 miles of the plant.  The majority of the 500 REMP, Radiological
Environmental Monitoring Program, samples are also taken within close
proximity of the plant, with some samples taken up to five to 10 -- pardon me,
10 to 15 miles from the plant.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Sir.
MR. BROWN:  Yes.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  About a minute.
MR. BROWN:  The children from Brick, whose baby teeth were
shown to contain strontium-90, live beyond this radius.  We need a big enough
scientific study to answer the question: Do children living in Oyster Creek’s
ingestion planning zone face a life-long health threat from this nuclear plant’s
operations?
Thank you very much.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you for your testimony, sir.
MR. BROWN:  Do you want copies?
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Yes, thank you.  Please submit it.
We’ll distribute it to the entire Committee.
Ms. Jensen.
And Stephen Lazorchak is on deck.
M A R Y   J E N S E N:  Good evening.
24
I used to live in District 40, so I can’t say that I ever voted for you
guys.
I wanted just to say a few things.  The nuclear energy that we have
here that’s generated from power plants in the United States and all over
Europe--  No one’s considered that -- that Europe has used atomic energy
power plants for over 40 years.  They’ve had no problems, except, of course,
Russia -- and Russia in Chernobyl had the problem of workers who were not
trained.  This is not at all what we have here.
I cannot understand how come the environmentalists aren’t on
your backs, because nuclear energy is a far better source of electricity than is
gas, or coal, fossil fuels.  These guys pollute.  They cause smog and air
pollution, and nuclear energy does not.  Nuclear energy is also economically
more better.  It generates an enormous amount of energy for a very small
expenditure of energy.  Fossil fuels -- they are nonrenewable.  We’re not going
to get them back.  We can’t do anything to make them be produced faster.
The little fossils are working as hard as they can now, and we’re using it up
fast.
You might also consider that nuclear energy does not contribute
to global warming.  Everybody is all upset about global warming.  Pretty soon
Greenland is going to melt, and we’re all going to be flooded, so it won’t
matter.
Some alternates have been suggested.  Solar energy -- it’s a little
bit too far north to have that be an efficient source of energy.  And everybody
gets very alarmed about windmills, and killing the birds, and running into
boats, and being an eyesore.  So that’s not really a good alternate.
25
This nuclear power plant, here in Lacey, has a large number of
people employed here.  Those people, in turn, contribute to the community.
Their people go to school here, their people volunteer here, their people are all
part of the community, and, as such, represent the nuclear plant, which also
contributes to this community, both in money and in its -- in land.
Studies have been mentioned that diseases are caused by nuclear
plants.  I can give statistics, also, that go in the other direction.  Statistics can
be made to do whatever you want them to do.  They work both ways.  People
died of radiation and cancer long before anybody ever thought of nuclear
energy power plants.
Nuclear energy is used on another angle, as in medicine as
treatment -- radiation treatment for cancers, for thyroid disorders.  A lot of
people here in this room have had tests with an MRI.  The original name of
that machine that you have to go through was nuclear magnetic.  So they may
not be aware of that.
And, finally here, hasn’t it occurred to some of these people that
the people that work at the power plant are just as keen on staying alive as
everybody else?  And if there were any chance that they were doing something
that would harm themselves or their families, they wouldn’t be doing it.  I’m
sure they have their own best interest at heart, and they’re going to do all in
their power to make sure that there are -- the safety concerns are there, that the
security is there.  And this plant has been -- parts have been replaced, people
go under training.  That was mentioned before.  And there’s nothing outdated
about that plant except the people who are trying to close it.  (laughter)
26
This plant is not going to blow up.  It’s not going to melt down.
It’s not going to just walk down the street and cause problems.  It’s not going
to radiate the area.  We’re all going to be all right.  I think some people need
to go back to school and study nuclear energy.  It’s not all bad.  You only hear
about things that are major disasters, that have not happened very frequently.
Thank you very much.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you for your testimony.
Steve Lazorchak.
And John Magee on deck, please.
S T E P H E N   M.   L A Z O R C H A K:  Good evening.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you.
MR. LAZORCHAK:  My name is Stephen Lazorchak.  I am a self-
employed consulting engineer in Toms River, New Jersey.  And I’m a past
employee of GPU Nuclear and Oyster Creek.
I’m here because I’m pro-nuclear, but I’m also against having this
plant operate until I get some reasonable answers as to the security of the
plant, in regards to an aircraft impact attack on the reactor building.
The reactor building is an obsolete structural design.  Let me just
describe what my problem is with the building.  If you were to go up to
elevation 119 foot, that’s about 84 feet above ground level, you will come
through a -- up through the stairwell located in one corner of the building.
Next to the stairwell is an elevator.  And next to the elevator is a 30x30 foot
open hatchway or hole in the floor that will go all the way down to ground
level.  And that’s for moving equipment from ground floor level all the way up
to the refueling floor during outages.
27
The problem I have with this is that diagonally across from this
stairwell -- if you walk across, you can go up to a handrail and look down into
the spent fuel pool.  You will see the hundreds of tons of radioactive spent fuel
under 30 feet of water.  At that same location, if you look straight up, you’re
going to see the roof trusses of the building.  And above that, you’re going to
see corrugated sheet metal decking.  The perimeter walls of this area are going
to be steel columns supporting the roof trusses and sheet metal siding,
basically, enclosing the whole area.
Below the refueling floor is a reinforced concrete structure several
feet thick.  All the vital equipment in the power plant is located within this
concrete structure.  This vital equipment is part of the system to shut down the
reactor safely and maintain cooling to the spent fuel storage pool.  My concern
is really the spent fuel storage pool, because it’s so vulnerable.
As part of an NRC directive, Oyster Creek was required to prepare
load drop calculations for all floor levels in the reactor building.  These
calculations identified the amount of energy it would take to damage the floor
slabs and floor beams if there was an accidental drop of a heavy load on the
floor.
Using the calculations, and also a kinetic energy equation for
determining force of a heavy object should it hit the floor, one can determine
if you have an unsafe structural concern.  The calculation is not very
sophisticated.  The calculation that is, is these load drop calculations from the
power plant.
On my evaluation, I can demonstrate from a comparison.  If you
had the impact energy from only one, one-thousand-pound object traveling at
28
300 miles an hour, and you hit the reactor building’s refueling floor at an angle
of 30 degrees above horizontal, this impact will exceed the strongest floor beam
by 500 percent.  Impacting the weakest floor beam in that floor will exceed its
capacity by 8,000 percent.  These just orders of magnitude clearly demonstrate
Oyster Creek’s reactor building is an unacceptable safety risk to New Jersey.
The comparison I was looking for -- the velocity is critical for any
object -- is if it hits hard enough, it will probably go through the floor system.
As a comparison, I use 300 miles an hour for just one object, and I
demonstrate there’s a serious problem.
American Airlines Flight 11, that crashed into the World Trade
Center Tower 1, was traveling at 350 miles an hour.  United Airlines Flight
175 crashed into the World Trade Center Tower at 550 miles an hour.
Oyster Creek’s relicensing Web site refers to an EPRI, December
23, 2002, report showing aircraft could not breach nuclear structures.  This
report analyzed a cylindrical domed structure, not Oyster Creek’s square
reactor building.  The EPRI report used an impact velocity of 350 miles an
hour.  At 550 miles an hour, a large aircraft will penetrate the structural model
used in the EPRI report.
My biggest concern is that the information that I have is easily
obtained.  And I’ve written the NRC, and my senators, and my congressmen.
And I’m here today to express my concern to you.  The information should be
going to people like in NORAD.  They’re the only ones who will protect
nuclear power plants from an air attack.  If they don’t have the confidential
report that the National Academy of Sciences prepared and issued to Congress
29
last July, they may not even know they have a serious problem.  And that’s
part of the concern I have.
Thank you very much.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much.
Mr. Magee.
And next would be Mr. Morris.
J O H N   M A G E E:  Mr. Chairman, members of the Committee, and Lacey
Township, I’d like to thank you for coming here tonight and hosting this very
important event.
My name is John Magee.  I am the Engineering Director at Oyster
Creek.  I appreciate you coming out to our site to see for yourself how well
Oyster Creek runs, operates, and maintains.
I’m a resident of Stafford Township, where I live with my family,
wife, and two children.  And I am for the license renewal of Oyster Creek.
Tonight I could talk for hours about Oyster Creek’s performance
and provide you facts on the material condition, operations, and maintenance
of our plant.
Can I have a couple of hours, sir?  (laughter)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  You can.  You could start at
midnight.  We’ll keep the recorders on.
MR. MAGEE:  However, I offer all that are here tonight, and those
that--
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Honestly, Mr. Magee, I’m teasing
you.  But if there’s anything you’d like to submit to us in writing, we will take
the time to consider it.
30
MR. MAGEE:  I will do that, sir.  Thank you.
However, I offer all those that are here tonight an invitation to
come out to Manchester Civic Center for Oyster Creek’s information fair next
Wednesday, February 16, starting at 5:00 p.m.  At the information fair, you
will view exhibits and talk one-on-one with Oyster Creek representatives about
Oyster Creek Generating Station, plant improvements and upgrades,
emergency preparedness, radiation and industry, security enhancements,
protection of the environment, license renewal, and community benefits.  As
I stated, this will be Wednesday, February 16, Manchester, from 5:00 to 8:00
p.m.
Tonight, I want to inform you about the people at Oyster Creek,
the citizens of this community.  All too often in the discussions around Oyster
Creek, the dedicated men, and women, and community workers who come to
help us out are forgotten.  Oyster Creek employees are dedicated, trained
nuclear professionals who are committed to the safe operation of the plant and
to protect the health and safety of the public we serve.
This imbedded safety culture carries over to our personal lives.
Our employees are active in their communities, and some volunteer with their
local first aid or fire departments.  They use the safety skills that are part of
their daily professional lives to help others in their personal needs.  That’s
important to me, and I know it’s important to you.  We are Little League
coaches, we are Scout leaders, we are community volunteers.  We are mothers,
fathers, husbands, wives, brothers, sisters, aunts, and uncles of this community.
Protecting your family, whether on the baseball field or while we
are working at Oyster Creek, is important to us.  Our number one priority at
31
Oyster Creek is safety: the safety of our employees, our visitors, our public, and
our community.
Oyster Creek employees believe in giving back to the community.
We walk the talk.  In 2004, Oyster Creek employees personally donated
$176,000 to the United Way of Ocean County.  We are the single largest
employee-run campaign for the United Way.  Our employees also raised
approximately $15,000 to benefit the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation,
and Oyster Creek donated $5,000 to Southern Ocean County Hospital Lights
of Life holiday celebration.  We do all this because we care about our
communities.
I’m proud to work at Oyster Creek, and I am an active member of
this community.  Oyster Creek is clean, it’s safe, it’s reliable.  License renewal
is a necessity for the people and our community.
Thank you very much.  And I’ll see you next week at Manchester.
(applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  We’ll do our best.  Thank you very
much.
Mr. Morris, who I called.
And James Fleury, it looks like, from Toms River, will be next.
E D W A R D   G.   M O R R I S:  Good evening.
My name is Edward Morris.  I live in Forked River.  I’ve worked
at the plant for over 20 years.
Whether the plant gets relicensed or not, I will be long retired.  So
I really don’t have that -- my job is not at risk, per se.  But what I want to say
to you is, the safety of the plant, the whole operation of the plant has been
32
subjected to the corporate mentality and the corporate culture.  And you’re
responsible for that.  When you deregulated the electric utility industry, you
put everyone and their electric service -- the safety, the reliability -- at risk.  So
maybe you should take a look at it, especially when Exelon wants to buy
PSE&G and a couple more nuclear power plants.
I believe Oyster Creek is safe.  The people that work there are
dedicated.  They care.  But you need to look at what you do.  Maybe this is the
unexpected consequences, unintended consequences of some of the actions
that the folks in Trenton take.
Thank you.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you, sir.
Mr. Fleury.
And next is Marilyn Fontanetta.
J A M E S   F L E U R Y:  Thank you very much.
My name is James Fleury.  I live in Toms River, New Jersey.  I
come to you as a citizen, voter, taxpayer of the State of New Jersey, today.  I’m
a lifelong resident, including eight years serving this country in the United
States Navy.  I’m a father of three young children in the Toms River school
system.  My wife is in the Dover Township Environmental Commission.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Jim, could you speak into the mike
as best you can?
MR. FLEURY:  My wife is a member of the Dover Township
Environmental Commission.
33
I will limit my comments this evening to the Environment and
Solid Waste commission’s purview, specifically the effects of Oyster Creek on
the environment.
Closing Oyster Creek would have a significant negative impact on
the environment.  And I say this, especially relating to air quality.  The
majority of the portion of our electricity generated in this country is generated
by coal and nuclear power, 70 percent total -- 50 percent of that from coal.
The base-load plants that generate power and compete with each other in an
open marketplace are coal and nuclear power.
If we were to close the nuclear power plant in Lacey Township, the
generation that would pick up on this would be coal generation.  The burning
of fossil fuels, obviously, is an issue for air quality.  But an EPA study released
in 2002 -- and the effects of different oxides on the environment -- said that
even though electrical generation has gone up significantly due to the demand
over the past 15 years, the air quality, as it relates to that, has stayed relatively
the same, if not gotten slightly better.  They contribute this to a larger portion
of power being supplied by nuclear power plants in the Northeast region.
Closing down Oyster Creek would buy you into 600 more megawatts of coal
generation out West, the byproducts of which would be carried by the air over
New Jersey.  We know that New Jersey’s air quality is one of the worst in the
mid-Atlantic region.  A great portion of this we believe to be coming from the
Western power plants.  I know that New Jersey’s currently looking at litigation
to this effect, due to that.
I also will contend that the coal generation actually puts more
radioactivity into the environment than nuclear power.  The reason you do not
34
hear about this is they’re not required to be monitored as nuclear power plants
are for their discharges.  Coal has naturally occurring radioisotopes in it.  As
they are burned, they are carried on the air, and they fall out in the following
communities.  The amount of activity that a coal plant puts out is factors
higher, over a yearly period, than nuclear power plants.
If you want to relate to solid waste generation, the entire--  I said
that nuclear power has operated for 30 years -- approximately 20 percent of
what’s generated in this country.  All the high-level nuclear waste in this
country, if it was put in one location, would rest on the size of a football field
only 30 feet high.
One coal plant, generating the same amount of electricity that
Oyster Creek produces, generates that much ash and waste in one year.  That
waste is considered toxic waste.  It has heavy metals, mercury included.
Mercury is another byproduct of coal generation that is also put in the air.
And we know that that has effects on our air quality.  This waste has to be
landfilled in special landfills because of its environmental impact, and possible
impacts on groundwater.
If, also, we were to replace Oyster Creek, the Pennsylvania-New
Jersey-Maryland exchange, which maintains the power grid in this area -- of
which Oyster Creek supplies 9 percent of the State of New Jersey -- which was
incorrectly quoted.  We provide 1 percent in the entire grid, but 9 percent to
New Jersey -- said that in order to replace Oyster Creek, or if Oyster Creek was
to shut down, it would require $100 million in infrastructure upgrades to the
230,000 volt and 500,000 volt kv grids in northern New Jersey -- some of
them going through your districts.  These wires would require right-of-ways to
35
be purchased, which isn’t included in that $100 million cost, which we’ve
passed on to the ratepayers of New Jersey.
We talked a little bit about alternative powers.  I believe in the
environment, I believe in alternative powers.  But, currently, some of these
alternatives are not feasible.  Specifically, solar power is subsidized by
taxpayers at a rate of 65 percent.  In other words, if I want to put solar panels
on my house, the State would subsidize it by 65 percent with taxpayer dollars.
And even at this rate, it is not economically feasible.  Most people will not
invest in it.  We heard about wind farms.  Currently, New Jersey has a
moratorium on wind farms and, therefore, they are not currently feasible, also.
If we are serious about clean air, water, solid waste, and the
environment, Oyster Creek and nuclear power is the best option with the least
environmental impact.
Once again, I thank the commission for coming to Lacey
Township, and I thank them again, also.  And I appreciate your time.
Thank you.  (applause)
I do have--
Here’s a copy of the PJM report, and a copy of the EPA report
with the backup facts on it.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much.  And we’ll
make sure that we evaluate them.
You’re not a bad tour guide either, by the way.  (laughter)
Ms. Fontanetta.
And Jack Nosti will be next.
M A R I L Y N   F O N T A N E T T A:  Good evening.
36
My name is Marilyn Fontanetta, and I live in Lakewood, New
Jersey.
I would like to see the Oyster Creek Nuclear Power Plant closed
as soon as possible, because I feel it is extremely vulnerable to terrorist attacks
in any one of three possible ways: by land, from a shoulder held missile fired
from a vehicle on Route 9 -- from which you can clearly see the plant, by a
plane crashing into the spent fuel pool, or by an attack from the sea.  I heard
on the radio one day that suspicious activity was noted by people in kayaks.
And I know that they do kayaking in this vicinity.
The second main reason I’d like to see the plant closed is that I
feel evacuation of the area, in the event of an accidental release of radiation,
or due to a terrorist attack, would be impossible before we were reached by a
radioactive plume.
On the Fourth of July, I went to see fireworks on Long Beach
Island.  Coming home, what is normally a 25 minute ride took over two hours.
The traffic was, at some point, absolutely stopped.  There were people that had
come out of their homes and were sitting in lawn chairs at the side of the road
conversing with the motorists stuck in traffic.  Now, this was not an emergency
situation, and it was not all of Ocean County that had to be evacuated.  It was
just people coming home from seeing fireworks.  If you can imagine what it
would be like in the event of a radioactive release, you can just picture the
chaos that would prevail.
If it’s possible, I would like to see legislation passed by New Jersey
that would say, “If it’s not legal to build a plant today, as it was built
originally--”  And as I understand it, the design of this Oyster Creek Nuclear
37
Power Plant has been disallowed since 1972 -- that’s over 30 years ago -- that
such a plant, which couldn’t be built that way today -- it would be illegal to
continue operating it.
I also would just like to make note that the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission is not elected by the people of this country, and yet the decisions
that this small handful of people make affects the lives and potentially the
health of millions of Americans.
And I thank you for taking the trouble to come out of Trenton, to
the communities, and listening to the concerns of the people that live in your
state.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you for taking the time to
be here from Lakewood.
Mr. Nosti.
And Edith G-B-U-R, Gbur (indicating pronunciation), will be next.
J A C K   N O S T I:  Good evening, Mr. Chairman, panel.
We thank you very much and welcome you to Lacey Township.
My name is Jack Nosti.  I’m the President of the Lacey Township
Republican Club, and I’m here speaking on behalf of that club, the county
organization, and as a private citizen.
First of all, as the Republican organization of Lacey Township, we
took a very strong stand that we very much favor the continued safe and clean
operation of Oyster Creek.  Oyster Creek has been a fantastic neighbor to
Lacey Township since it opened in the late ’60s.  And it will continue to be so,
we hope, into the future.
38
As a private citizen, I would like to say that I’m very happy to tell
you that the sky is not falling.  From all of the naysayers that I hear speaking
at this forum, and at previous forums, their scenarios are all, what if this
happens and what if that happens?  I think we have more to threat from just
every day occurrences.  Not that many years ago, we had a gas station in this
town that had leaky tanks, and it polluted the water supply of a good group of
homes east of Route 9.
As I grew up in North Jersey, in Essex County, we lived in the
town of Nutley, where we had a pharmaceutical plant, Hoffmann-LaRouche,
which is still there today.  And we grew up in that town dealing with the
terrible fumes from that plant on a daily basis.  We had leaks into our stream
and everything else.  Now, nobody jumped up and down, because this was a
pharmaceutical plant.  God bless them.  They should stay open.  Well, we feel
the same way about Oyster Creek.  We have not had the bad incidences with
Oyster Creek.  It’s been a fantastic operating plant and a very good neighbor.
As far as the traffic is concerned, having grown up and living 40
years of my life in North Jersey, I know what traffic is.  And to sit -- and I’m
sure you all do, traveling to and from Trenton.  But in North Jersey, it was
nothing to sit in hours, on a daily basis, commuting to and from work in less
than 10 miles.  That’s kind of what we are today.  I think we all have to sell
our cars and start walking if we’re going to do away with the traffic congestion.
And as far as replacing the need for energy, who is going to give
up their computer?  Who’s buying less air conditioning?  No one is doing
anything.  If anything, there’s more and more of a need for clean, efficient fuel.
And this is what we’re getting from nuclear plants.  We protect our country
39
with nuclear submarines that travel very close up and down into the
Philadelphia area.  And no one is jumping up and down about our warships
that are fueled by nuclear -- and other things like that.
Nuclear plants, as far as I am concerned -- and an overwhelming
majority of the residents of Lacey Township -- is fine.  We knew about this
plant when I moved here 20 years ago.  And I was happy with it, and I’m just
as happy with it today.
I thank you for your time.  Good evening.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much.
Are you sure you don’t want any more time?  Assemblyman
Rooney said any Republican gets seven minutes.  (laughter)
E D I T H   G B U R:  Thank you.
I’m happy to be here.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Excuse me, Edith.  Just a moment.
Mr. Posey will be next.
MS. GBUR:  Pardon me?
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Please, thank you.  Welcome here.
MS. GBUR:  Oh, thank you.  And we thank you for the
opportunity to be here.
I’m the President of Jersey Shore Nuclear Watch.  And the
purpose of our testimony is to ask, in considering the future of Oyster Creek,
that the Assembly Environment Committee join 15 townships, municipalities,
for the immediate shutdown of Oyster Creek.
We’re asking that you do not put any hope into the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission that they will shut down the plant.  They have never
40
shut down the plants.  They have just extended the licenses for 30 nuclear
plants.  If left up to them, the plant will remain open indefinitely, unless there
is a catastrophe, such as a terrorist attack or an accident.
We believe that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission cannot be
swayed by public pressure.  Furthermore, challenges by lengthy procedures and
more costly studies are unnecessary.  These are delaying tactics and will allow
the plant to remain open forever, if that’s what the plant wants to do.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission licensing procedure ignores
the health risks to children who are getting emitted by radiation.  The Nuclear
Regulatory license procedures refused to consider terrorism, nor will it consider
the impact of an airliner into the dry casks or the fuel pool.  These matters are
now in the hands of the National Academy of Science.
The National Academy of Science wrote a report about the impact
of an airliner into dry casks or into a fuel pool.  The NRC says that this is
classified.  The Institute of Science has a declassified version.  The Nuclear
Regulatory Commission refuses to release it.
The so-called hearings on the closure of Oyster Creek by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission will not consider evacuation.  They say that
the evacuation plan is fine here.  They will not consider--  So what we’re left
with is that all of the issues that our citizens have talked about -- evacuation,
safety, security, terrorism -- will not be considered at the hearings.  It’s just a
charade.
In addition to that, all of the decisions about closing the plant
because it is not safe, secure, or healthy were made by local people.  In New
York, Mayor (sic) Cuomo and the citizens helped to shut down the Shoreham
41
Nuclear Plant.  The Main Yankee was shut down because of citizens.  And so
we’re asking that you look at the history.  Study the 19 nuclear plants that
were decommissioned, and you will find that the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission did not say -- have any say into it.  The only thing that the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission can do is to help to process the
decommissioning of nuclear plants.
So we ask that you call for the immediate closure of Oyster Creek.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much.
Mr. Posey.
And Paula Gotsch.
D O N A L D   P O S E Y:  Thank you for hearing my comments.
My name is Don Posey.  I’m a resident of Bayville.  I work at the
plant for the last four years.  But this year, I celebrate my 29th year in the
nuclear industry.  I started out in operations.  And I was fortunate to take my
NRC exam three months after TMI.  And I remember some of the new
questions that the NRC put on my exam. 
So what I’m coming here to tell you is that we have processes that
govern the plants.  And I believe they work, if we allow them to work.  I believe
the NRC oversees the plants on the basis--  And they are -- they govern the
plants.  I’ve been to some plants where the NRC has shut down--  And I
worked through those issues.  And I’ve seen how the plants have become much
better plants, operated, and, today, they are the highest -- one of the plants I
was at is the highest operated, highest (indiscernible) rated plant of the
42
industry.  So I think the process is working, and I would like for you to
consider those processes when you make your decision.
Secondly, I work in the outage management section, which means
that I plan, schedule, and coordinate any time the plant shuts down, if it’s a
forced outage or a refuel outage.  One of my responsibilities is on the safety of
the plant itself.  And the multiple levels of safety that we go through maintains
the safety of the plant during those time frames.  And we have multiple people
-- we have challenges on the safety of the plant before we go into the refuel
outage.  And that is put into the plan, and that is reviewed, and that is
challenged by a separate team.
So I think that the plant, itself, is safe.  And as we’re in an outage,
the plant goes -- every schedule that goes out -- and every day, we analyze and
make sure that we maintain that level of safety.
So I think that that’s another key point that--  I believe the plant
is safe.  I believe the processes work if you allow it.  And I think that you
should consider the process and consider the safety of the plant when you
make your decision.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much, sir.
Ms. Gotsch.
Jim Schmidling will be on deck.
And before Mr. Schmidling speaks, I’m going to have a word or
two to say as to how we’re doing with the number of people testifying.
Ms. Gotsch.
P A U L A   G O T S C H:  Thank you.  Thanks for being here.
43
My name is Paula Gotsch, and I’m one of the spokes people for
Grandmothers, Mothers, and More for Energy Safety.  We are representing 20
of our -- our steering committee of 20 people.  There are 60 children and 123
grandchildren.
I want to start by saying that I don’t think anybody here doubts
the dedication, and the skills, and the technical abilities of the workers at
Oyster Creek.  That was never a question in our mind.
But we’re concerned about the nuclear waste that’s piling up.  And
talking directly to you, as the solid waste people for this state, I want to say I
support the movement that this plant be decommissioned fully with the
natural -- restored to its natural area, and that the extra money from the
decommissioning fund be used for worker compensation.
My son is a machinist.  Many of his friends worked at the plant
when it was owned by GPU, I believe it was.  And I have nothing against the
working man.  That’s not the problem.  The problem is that in the nuclear
waste -- some of the nuclear products -- byproducts -- plutonium-239, the most
deadly poison known to man in the whole history of the world, is what is in
that nuclear waste.
And now the problem is that no one has a place to put nuclear
waste.  And the longer New Jersey allows nuclear waste to build up within our
borders, the bigger problem it will be.
I want to also say a couple of things that I think is misinformation.
Number one, nuclear is not the most economical power.  In fact, there’s studies
that show that the states that use nuclear power in their mix pay the highest
bills.  It is not clean energy.  The amount of CO2 used in uranium mining and
44
in the construction of nuclear plants is very heavy.  And when the global
community met in Europe to decide what would be used -- what we called
Energy for Climate Change -- nuclear was rejected worldwide because of the
amount of CO2 generated when -- with the whole system.
It’s especially not the cheapest, because it is so heavily subsidized.
In fact, if you counted all the subsidies that we taxpayers have paid for, for
nuclear energy, it would far exceed what nuclear has produced for us, in terms
of any economic benefit.
Let’s see.  I’m not going to go on anymore, because our eyes are
all glazing over.  I just want to say that we have a real problem.  If we don’t
jump on this and take this opportunity to close this plant down, we are going
to have more nuclear waste.  And I’m a little worried, like Social Security, that
there’s a trust fund now.  But I’d hate to wait to see what will happen if we just
put off the decommissioning.  And, all of a sudden, who knows -- we won’t
have a trust fund to do all we have to do.  And it’s going to take all of us
working very hard to do this.  In Maine, it took the whole community to get
involved, to help get this site back into its natural state.
Again, I want to say, no one is doubting the dedication, the
technical ability, and the work ethic or the community spirit of any plant
worker.  That is not the problem.
I guess grandmothers just want to say to Exelon, “You’ve had your
hand in the cookie jar a long time.  Now, go out in the backyard, and clean up
your mess.”
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much, ma’am.
45
Mr. Schmidling.
And he’ll be followed by Ed Di Marco.
Let me just take a moment and let everybody know where we’re
at.  We are precisely half way through the number of speakers who have signed
up.  Of the remaining speakers, which is 19, there are seven who already spoke
in Brick.  We will continue with our five-minute rule.  But when we get to
those who already spoke, we’re going to limit them to three minutes.  That
should get us to the point that we’re finished by about 20 to 10:00, give all
members of the Committee a few moments to sum up, and be concluded by
the 10:00 hour, as promised, giving everybody a chance.
The last thing I want to just remind--  If the Mayor does come --
Mayor Quinn -- we will, at the conclusion of whoever is speaking, just allow
him the courtesy of speaking.
So, with that, Mr. Schmidling, thank you.
J I M   SCHMIDLING:  Good evening.  It’s nice to see you all here.
I’m sorry to see you’re so young.
What I want to do is give a little history lesson.
The only nuclear power plant that really had an accident was
Three Mile Island.  When the Three Mile Island reactor had the problem, it
wasn’t something that went boom, bang and released radiation.  What
happened there was, the water level fell -- if my memory serves me correctly --
a hydrogen bubble developed, and they were afraid that the hydrogen bubble
was going to blow.  This was over a two-day period.  There was a lot of people
from the Three Mile Island area who came down here, stayed in some of our
46
motels that were fairly empty because it was our off-season.  And it was a two-
day process, where they all were evacuated from the danger zone.
It’s not where you’re going to have everybody jump in their car
and shoot out of town.  The worst-case scenario is, it will be at least 24 hours
notice before there’s something that’s going to happen.
Now, a lot of people before me have spoken about the evacuation,
and it’s just not going to be necessary that quickly.
In today’s newspaper -- they must have known you were all
coming -- had an article about fossil fuels and power plants -- that fossil fuels
are emitting the carbon dioxide gases, which are contributing to the global
warming.  And we’re one of the only countries not in the protocol to control
this.  But it is fossil fuels.
And, also, with the way China is buying up coal, and the way the
environmental people are allowing coal mining these days--  But in two years,
there’s going to be a shortage of coal.  There’s not going to be enough coal to
run the coal plants.
So it would be a good thing.  This power plant has been a good
neighbor all these years.  We’ve had no problems with it.  And the best thing
for us would be to relicense the power plant and let things continue to go
along.  As far as I know, nobody’s ever died from a power plant here.
In this country, there are 50,000 people killed a year -- pedestrians
struck by automobiles.  Nobody is out to ban automobiles, and they’re killing
50,000 people a year, and that’s only pedestrians.
So, thank you for coming, and take this all into consideration,
please.  (applause)
47
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much, sir.
Mr. DiMarco.
And next will be B. Kearney.
E D   D i M A R C O:  I just want to say -- make a point that the NRC is not
responsible -- not a responsible agency.  They are not responsible to the public
or even congressional agencies that have oversight over them.
There was a resolution that Berkeley Township made to
decommission Oyster Creek on 10/28/03.  They cited, “Whereas the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission has not taken enforcement action against an 11-year-
old noncompliance, identified in triennial fire protection/inspection report
involving the ability of a reactor to safely shut down in the event of a fire,
exposing the public to undue risk.”  So for 11 years, they held them in
noncompliance.
This is a--  You wonder why the -- if they could even legally do
that, but they did that.  And I think some of the people may be bringing suit
against them to -- why they were able to do that.
One month later, once it got into the public record, the New York
Times published a report where the Nuclear Regulatory Commission was trying
to -- after 10 -- they say 10 -- years of struggling to make reactor owners
modify their plants to protect electrical cables from fire, the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission is now proposing to amend its own rules, retroactively
legalizing an alternative strategy used by many plants but never formally
approved.
So for 10 years, they wouldn’t approve this plant.  Then, all of a
sudden, when it became public record, they were willing to lower their
48
standards.  So you think this was really safe?  I mean, if they didn’t -- they
wouldn’t lower their standards for 10 years -- 11 years -- and then, all of a
sudden, once it got into the public arena and the public knew about it, they
were going to lower their standards.  This thing, where it was done by
something called an operator manual action, where if they saw a fire, they would
have to run through the fire and the smoke to put out the fire or shut off the
equipment.
Now, the nuclear power -- always say they’re a good neighbor and
they have every -- all the things in the power plant have duplicity where they’re
shut off or do something.  What do they do in this case?  Send another man
down if the first man doesn’t make it through? 
They also say they’re a good neighbor, but for 10 or 11 years, they
held us -- nobody said anything about this fire hazard, which placed the public
at risk for 10 or 11 years.  So they claim to be a good neighbor, but it doesn’t
seem that way.
Also, when I cited this at a meeting one time -- another meeting --
they said they had taken care of this problem.  They just flat out said they had
taken care of this problem.  They are taking care of this problem -- I think the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission would really be concerned about how they did
that, because they wouldn’t have to lower their standard.
Then there’s a statement here from Congressman Dennis
Kucinich. It’s a statement of the Congressman on the GAO report on the
Davis-Besse Nuclear Plant.  On May 18, 2004, the General Accounting Office
released a scathing report on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s handling
of the crisis at Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Plant.  Congressman Dennis
49
Kucinich issued the following statement on the report: “The General
Accounting Office’s report highlights shocking, serious, and dangerous systemic
problems at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, problems that call into
question whether the agency can, as it is currently run, continue to perform its
most fundamental functions to protect public safety.”
ASSEMBLYMAN PANTER:  Mr. DiMarco, when you get a
moment, we’re just going to ask you to wrap it up shortly so that the next
person can go.
Thank you.
MR. DiMARCO:  Okay.
This report reveals failures at almost every rung up the
bureaucratic ladder at the NRC.  And it goes on to say that, “This report is a
black eye on the NRC.  Despite numerous warnings, the NRC cavalierly
disregarded public safety as Davis-Besse drifted closer to disaster.  The NRC
was aware of cracked tubes and corrosion at plants similar to Davis-Besse, yet
it gave FirstEnergy preferential treatment and inspected the plant fewer times
than other plants. This sort of preferential treatment seems to indicate that the
NRC protected FirstEnergy’s bottom line at the expense of the public safety.”
And there’s just one more little sentence here.  “The NRC’s
response to this report may be more troubling than the report itself.
Regrettably, the NRC has chosen to disregard the recommendation of this
report.  The NRC must learn from its mistakes.  I find it troubling, as a
member of Congress, with oversight over the NRC, that the agency appears to
arrogantly be ignoring recommendations of the GAO.”
50
So they override the public, and they override everybody.  So I’m
saying to you, what are you going to do, in terms of protecting us at the State
level?
ASSEMBLYMAN PANTER:  Thank you, Mr. DiMarco.  Thank
you very much.
We have B. Kearney next.
And then Michele Donato will be after her.
B E T T Y   A N N   M A C E   K E A R N E Y:  Mr. Chairman, members of
the Committee, my name is Betty Ann Kearney.  I am a homeowner and
taxpayer of Lacey Township.  I am also a mother and a widow.  I have no
connection to Oyster Creek, and I know no one that works there.  But I do
know the difference between a huge company who is a good neighbor and one
that is a bad neighbor.
The Oyster Creek people are responsible for a large portion of our
property taxes in our town.  This makes my home more affordable and allows
me to educate my children in a wonderful community.
They have spent money to increase safety.  And from what I have
read, they have trained many responders in Ocean County.  They have been
contributors to the betterment of our town.  Yes, they are a power company,
but we need power.  They have been in operation safely for many years.
Unless someone can prove to me that they are no longer safe, they should be
allowed to continue.
I do not want my property taxes to go through the roof because
someone has it out for Oyster Creek.  I live here, I pay the taxes, and I don’t
want them to go up.
51
When I introduced myself, I said I was a widow.  I know about
bad companies.  Three years ago my husband died because of a bad company.
He was 49 years old.  He left behind two children.  He worked his entire life
for the Bayway Refining Company in Linden, New Jersey.  Anyone who looks
at the facts of what has happened in that county, and happens to know about
Bayway and the exposure of chemicals to the employees and the community,
know that they killed my husband.  But the refinery is a bad neighbor and has
refused to acknowledge the problem.  Instead, they have stalled and hid.  There
would never be a hearing up there like this.
My husband died of esophageal cancer, as did 11 of his coworkers
in 12 years.  This means the incidence of esophageal cancer at the oil refinery
is 2,800 times above national statistics.
In fact, last week, the owners of the Bayway Refinery agreed to pay
$60 million in fines and do a half-a-billion dollars of repairs at that refinery.
Now, that’s a bad company.
Oyster Creek is not a bad company and should be continued in
operations.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN PANTER:  Thank you very much.
We have Michele Donato next.
And she’ll be followed by John Clark.
M I C H E L E   R.   D O N A T O,   ESQ.:  Good evening.
My name is Michele Donato.  I’m an attorney, and I live and work
in Lavalette, New Jersey.
52
I first became aware of the problems with Oyster Creek in 1995,
when I represented William DeCamp (phonetic spelling), who opposed the dry
storage facilities that the plant proposed to construct at the location in Lacey
Township.  I had concerns about the dry storage facility.  But what I learned
from the National Academy of Sciences, and from other scientific studies
about Oyster Creek, gave me great alarm.
We raised issues of terrorism.  And at that time, they were
dismissed as being paranoid.  We learned after 9/11 that those concerns were
well-justified and quite frightening.  I learned also that the plant was of a
design that was abandoned soon after it was constructed.  There were only four
of these apparently -- of this boiling water reactor.  And the boiling water
reactor is more like the Chernobyl style design.  And in event of an accident,
it would have much greater problems than what happened, for example, at
TMI.
I learned that the structural integrity of the plant was challenged
because of its age and because of the effects of heat and radiation.  It simply
wasn’t intended for a long life.  The heat really affects and cracks the integrity
of the structure.  And there are inaccessible portions of the structure that
cannot be seen and cannot be replaced.
I learned, also, the concerns that you’ve heard about evacuation
and about the failure to be able to store the waste.  But I had some consolation,
because I understood that the license would expire in 2009.
Since then, I have read in the paper about the fish kills that have
occurred from that plant not once, not twice, but many times.  I’m also aware
that the company is now required to monitor the mortality of its wildlife.
53
What is happening and being killed from that plant that they can measure --
not to mention what they cannot -- because of the thermal pollution, because
of the antiquated design of the turbines, because of the lack of protection for
the environment that that plant has.
I also read in the paper that when Exelon took over, the dedicated
workers in this plant went on strike because of safety.  They didn’t go on strike
because of money, they didn’t go on strike because of benefits.  They went on
strike because Exelon cut the safety standards.  And only after 11 or 12 weeks,
apparently of intransigence on the part of Exelon, did they have to give in
because of economic concerns.
I also learned that Exelon has a horrendous record, wherever it
operates.  It does not care about safety.  It does not care about the
environment.  What it cares about is the bottom line to Exelon shareholders.
We can talk about economics and the relative harm or risks from
this plant.  One thing is certain.  If this plant has an accident, the harm to this
entire region will be greater than anything that could occur from any other
environmental problem in this area.
And if we want to talk about economics, this is Ocean County.  It
is a county that has built its economy on the resort -- on the resources that we
have.  We have the Barnegat Bay.  This plant is heating up the Barnegat Bay.
This plant is essentially an antiquated piece of equipment that was never
intended to last beyond 40 years.
Let us be fair.  Let us try to do the right thing and see that this
plant closes, and that these workers and the people who live in this township
do not have unfair economic effects.  But we cannot allow this plant to
54
continue because of those economic benefits.  We must think of the larger
good.  And, fortunately, that’s why you’re here, to weigh those difficult
decisions and, hopefully, to weigh in favor of the environment and in favor of
the citizens of this state.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you for your opinions.
Mr. Clark -- John Clark.
And Reverend Miller will be next.
J O H N   C L A R K:  Hello.  I thank the Committee for your time.
We’ve been sitting here a long time tonight, and we’ve heard a lot
of rhetoric.  And I enjoy it from both sides.  I say that -- that the nuclear
industry has to be more open in discussing what we do, because we are a bunch
of quiet professionals.  We’ve treated the industry in a way where we
understand it, we have learned it, and we make it better every day.  But we
don’t try to educate the public to that degree.  And there’s reasons for that.  A
lot of information that does get out is misconstrued.  And we try to avoid that.
Now, to introduce myself to you, I’m not just John Clark.  I’ll give
you a little bio.  I grew up about a half-mile from here.  I was valedictorian at
Lacey High School, right behind this school.  I’ll show my age.  This school
wasn’t here, then, that we’re standing in.  From there, I went and got a
chemical engineering degree from Lehigh.  From there, I got a Master’s degree
from Carnagie Mellon, also in chemical engineering.  I’ve worked for Proctor
& Gamble, I’ve worked for Air Products, I’ve done research with Bosch, and
I can say I work here for one reason, and that’s because they are committed
professionals.  They know their business.  They are better environmental
55
stewards than the chemical companies I just named.  How they handle
themselves -- they handle themselves like an environmental steward.  So if
that’s the scope of what we’re discussing tonight, I can think of no better thing
to do than relicense.
To give you a different perspective, I was at an assembly in
Toronto, back in May.  And there was over 40 countries represented at that
assembly.  And we discussed nuclear power and power in general.  And I can
tell you that the European countries are fully on board more than we are as a
country, because they have looked through what is green and what is not, what
is viable and what is not, and what is renewable and what is not.  And if you
look at Switzerland, they’re 50 percent -- extremely environmentally conscious
country -- and they’re there.  France, I believe, is somewhere between 70 and
79 percent nuclear power.  They’re there.  Japan, I think, is 80 percent at this
point, and they’re there.
So I just would ask the Assembly to consider those facts.  There’s
plenty of facts throughout the night that we’ve heard.  There’s more that we
have inside.  And I’m sure that, through your tour today -- I’m sure you got
inundated with them.  It’s very easy to happen.
The individual speaking before me is an attorney.  My sister is an
attorney.  And when we have a dinner conversation, she yells at me when I
start talking about the law, because she says, “John, you just don’t know.”  And
I agree with her.  Some things you really need to get into the field to
understand.
So I thank you for tonight.  I thank you for sitting and listening.
And I thank you for learning that we really are a safe industry -- and that the
56
30 nuclear power plants that were referenced before, to be relicensed -- I’m
proud of that fact, because this is an industry that is committed professionals.
They’re not running it just for today.  They’re running it, also, for tomorrow.
Thank you for your time.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much, sir.
Reverend Miller.
And, Bob Artz, you’re on deck.
R E V E R E N D   C H R I S T O P H E R   L.   M I L L E R:  Reverend
Christopher Miller.  I represent the United Methodist Church at the Greater
New Jersey Annual Conference, which represents 600-plus churches.  And I
also speak on behalf of the New Jersey Council of Churches, which represents
16 Protestant denominations throughout the state.
I’d like to thank you for your time, and I want to specifically thank
the staff people for being here, because I know you have to be here, as well.
And we’ve been thanking the Assembly persons all night long.
Thank you, staff people, for being here.
I just want to say, you’ve heard the concerns.  And the United
Methodist Church and the Council of Churches is also concerned about those
very things, about the safety of the plant, about the evacuation process.  And
we often feel that it’s not taken into account when money is taken into
account -- that we can’t afford to allow people to make money off the backs of
other people when their lives are at stake.
Both organizations have passed resolutions that are asking for the
decommissioning of the plant.  We’re not asking for the immediate
decommissioning.  We believe that the license should run its course.  But we
57
understand that this was a planned event, that the license was to expire.  We
know it’s the oldest plant, and we are concerned about its capabilities of
sustaining itself.  And I just wanted to let you know that those 16
denominations, which represent thousands of people within the state, and the
United Methodist Church, which represents thousands of people within the
state, have voted to ask you to not allow the license to be renewed if it’s at all
within your power.
Thank you.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much, Reverend.
Mr. Artz.
And, Grace Costanzo, you’ll be next.
B O B   A R T Z:  Good evening.
My name is Bob Artz.  I’m the Senior Nuclear Chemist at Oyster
Creek.
I’m a resident of Lacey Township.  I live in Lanoka Harbor with
my family.  I’m a registered voter, and I vote.  I’m also one of the Little League
coaches that John talked about earlier, here in Lacey Township.
I work with over 400 highly skilled, educated, highly trained, and
motivated individuals.  And we’re all working to ensure the safe, clean, reliable
operation of Oyster Creek. 
I’m in a rather unusual situation in that I have experience working
in both fossil fuel plants and solar heating systems.  The larger of the two fossil
plants that I worked at in Pennsylvania was a 400-megawatt coal burning
plant.  At that plant, we burned about 2,100 tons of coal per day.  Coal comes
in 100-ton railroad cars, so we processed about 21 railroad cars of coal per day.
58
To replace Oyster Creek with a coal plant, it would require the
burning of about 3,400 tons of coal per day.  That amount of coal would
produce--  I’m going to throw some numbers out, because we’ve heard CO2
and greenhouse gasses, but we haven’t really heard much about the magnitude
of that.  But that coal would produce about 12,000 tons of carbon dioxide
going into the air each day.  That’s a greenhouse gas.  Oyster Creek avoids that
contribution to greenhouse gasses.
In addition, our hypothetical 3,400 tons of coal contains about 2
percent sulfur.  That’s low sulfur coal.  That sulfur, when burned, would
produce about 210 tons of sulfuric acid per day -- 210 tons of sulfuric acid
going into the air each day.  Again, Oyster Creek avoids that contribution
towards acid rain.
You’ve heard individuals promoting renewable resources such as
solar and wind power.  And I’m sure you’re aware of the controversy over
offshore wind farms, which has appeared in local newspapers.  It’s also
appeared in Cape Cod, Massachusetts.
As far as solar energy goes, it’s best application is for small-scale
domestic water heating, except, of course, if you have a teenager at home, as
I do.  (laughter)  Unfortunately, because of the weather today, the solar
contribution for us would have been near zero.  We still need a backup source
of clean, safe, reliable power.  Oyster Creek is one such source.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you, sir.
Ms. Costanzo.
And Sara Bluhm, from NJBIA.
59
G R A C E   C O S T A N Z O:  Hi.
Thank you for allowing me to speak.
I’m not a rocket scientist.  I’m only a grandmother.  So I can’t talk
for all of the technicalities of the plant.  But I know one thing.  I’ve been here
in this area for eight years -- eight or nine years.  And when I moved down
here--
You know, some of the people at the plant say, “Well, you know,
you came down here.  If you knew you didn’t like the plant, you shouldn’t
have come down here.”  When I looked for a house here, I didn’t think of
looking for a nuclear plant, because that didn’t come into my mind.  It was a
nice area, it was real pretty, it was by the ocean.  I love the water.  And I didn’t
know about the plant.
However, one day, I heard on the radio, “Come to the school.”  I
live 10 miles from the plant.  “Come down to the school and get your
potassium iodide pill.”  And I said, “What do I need a potassium iodide pill
for?”  And it was because, in case anything happened.  This was after the 9/11.
They said, “In case of a terrorist attack, the potassium iodide pill would give
you about,” I think, “24 -- 20 hours of protection for your thyroid gland” for
the radiation that you would get poisoned by.  I said, “Wow, what’s doing all
this?”  So I looked into it.  Not only did I find that there was a power plant
here, but I found out it was the oldest plant in existence.  It was the oldest
plant in the U.S.
So I joined Jersey Shore Nuclear Watch.  And from that I learned
a lot more about it.  A lot of the things that I learned have already been said.
I’m not going to go into it.  But one thing has not been said.  Nuclear power
60
is not safe, it’s not clean, it’s not necessary.  It’s also not the cheapest power
there is.  The government subsidizes nuclear power plants -- the subsidies that
they have gotten, so far, has been over $145 billion.  This is from taxpayer
money.  It comes out of our pockets.  Is that cheap energy?  And the nuclear
power giants--  They wouldn’t spend their own money to build these plants
without these government subsidies.
Also, the Price-Anderson Act limits the nuclear utility’s -- my
ability -- to our citizens -- in case of a nuclear disaster.  You cannot sue the
power company.  And the power company only has a limit that they will pay
you if you live and not die from exposure to radiation or the rest of the
contaminants.  If the Price-Anderson Act were repealed today, all the nuclear
power plants in the U.S.A. would be shut down tomorrow, because they could
not afford to operate.
We know, also, that the evacuation plan is a joke.  The double-
trouble fire a couple of years ago -- the place was a parking lot.  And the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission refuses to address this issue.  Why?  Because
they don’t have any answers for us.  Nobody has an answer.  How are they
going to get people out of the area?  Do you know how?  I don’t.
Governor Cuomo -- it was mentioned before -- closed down the
Shoreham Nuclear Plant because of the evacuation plan.  Our Governor could
say this plant should be shut down tomorrow.  He’s got the power.  And you
gentlemen have the power to convince him.
We come here to meeting, after meeting, after meeting.  I’m tired
of repeating myself, because we keep saying the same thing.  We keep
61
reiterating the dangers inherent in this plant.  We keep telling you that we
don’t want the workers to lose their jobs.  We want them to be compensated.
And I would ask you to pass a resolution to close the plant.  Forget
about relicensing.  Just close it down, and go on from there, and build some
good plant.  They have gas plants, they have all kinds of clean energy, reliable
energy that we could depend upon.  And you have to do it now.  Don’t wait
until the damn thing blows up.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much, ma’am.
Ms. Bluhm.
S A R A   B L U H M:  Good evening members of the Committee.
My name--
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Nicole--
Excuse me.  You’ve been so patient in waiting.
MS. BLUHM:  Sure.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Nicole Simmons is next.
MS. BLUHM:  Oh, okay.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  No, no, you’re up.  I’m just telling
her.
I’ll mess you up if you listen to me long enough.
Please, I apologize.
MS. BLUHM:  My name is Sara Bluhm.  I’m the Director of
Energy and Federal Affairs at the New Jersey Business and Industry
Association.  Tonight, on behalf of our 23,000 member companies that rely on
62
safe and reliable electricity, I am here to support the relicensing of Oyster
Creek and nuclear power.  (applause)
The New Jersey business community is in a unique position when
it comes to energy.  After deregulation, we were broken into two different
communities.  Those large commercial and industrial customers were put onto
hourly pricing, which relies on a volatile electric market within the PJM region;
and smaller customers who are on the residential and small business fixed-price
marketing.
Regardless of the load, business needs reliable power.  We have to
have electricity to run our operations, run computers, keep the lights on, keep
the economy going.  Switching to fossil-fuel generated power that is produced
in other parts of the PJM will not only be costly to ratepayers, but it will put
us in a vulnerable position for transmission of power.
You’ve heard from some people that Oyster Creek is 1 percent of
the PJM grid.  You’re one of 80 in the Assembly.  Does that make you any less
important?  For this region, 51 percent of our power comes from nuclear.
Oyster Creek generates 9 percent of that 51 percent.  It’s 20 percent for this
region.  Could you imagine two out of every 10 homes not having power, two
out of every 10 businesses not having power?
For many years now, Jim Sinclair and I have been before this
Committee discussing the environment and business issues.  Past Committee
agendas have involved emissions from stationary and mobile sources and the
impact on the state.  We battled with our air quality and being downwind from
Midwest states.  The business community has spent millions of dollars on
reducing emissions from facilities in the state.
63
Now this Committee is discussing the impacts of nuclear power,
an emission-free source of state power.  The relicensing of Oyster Creek not
only provides 9 percent of the power supply, but it ensures a continued supply
of zero emission-generated electricity.
To put this into perspective for you, the 57,600 tons of NOx
avoided by nuclear power plants is the amount of NOx released by three
million cars.  There’s 4.1 million cars registered in our state.  Imagine putting
another three million on the road.  Generating electricity with nuclear energy
prevents the emissions of pollutants like sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides in
greenhouse gasses like CO2 associated with burning fossil fuels.  Nuclear power
is our largest potential provider of zero-emission power on a large capacity.  It
should be encouraged to continue operating, and even upgrade capacity within
New Jersey.
After spending time analyzing stationary services and mobile
sources like diesel, the State should not look to shut down nuclear power and
potentially replace it with fossil fuels.  Industry has worked hard in this state
to run clean operations.  The businesses in the state face above-average electric
prices.  And don’t be fooled that this is because of nuclear power or fossil fuel.
It’s based on the market.  When we are large commercial and industrial
customers, and we’re forced to buy off of a market, this is because of
transmission and generation.  If we have to rely on power coming in from
Ohio, it’s going to cost more than power generated in New Jersey.  This is
going to have impacts on the business community.
While Oyster Creek needs to be relicensed, we have to start
thinking strategically beyond this facility and look into the future.  New Jersey
64
needs to plan for the siting of new nuclear power facilities and generation
potential.
This hearing is part of the process of looking down the road.
Nuclear is and remains the best environmentally friendly source of electric
generation for this state and for business.  We need to be investing in this
facility and others like it to continue our economic growth, as well as
environmental stewardship.  Nuclear power is clean, safe, and reliable.
NJBIA urges you to support the continued investment, growth,
and operation of Oyster Creek Generating Station.  Keep the lights on and the
emissions at zero.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you.
Nicole Simmons.
And next is Dave Chernesky.
Thank you, Ms. Simmons.
N I C O L E   S I M M O N S:  Good evening.
My name is Nicole Simmons.  I’m with Clean Ocean Action.  I’m
the Water Policy Analyst.
Clean Ocean Action is a broad-based coalition of over 170
conservation, environmental, fishing, boating, diving, student, surfing,
women’s, business, service, and community groups.  Our goal is to improve the
water quality of the marine waters off the New Jersey/New York coast.
Clean Ocean Action’s current focus is on the marine degradations
caused by the plant.  An immediate and significant issue for the marine
environment, linked to the relicensing, is the renewal of the required pollution
65
discharge permit.  Oyster Creek Nuclear is currently operating under a
discharge permit, or NJPDES permit, that expired in 1999 and has been
administratively extended by the DEP.  This permit, originally issued in 1994,
is outdated and results in significant harm to the marine environment.
Fortunately, recent Phase II regulations require implementation of the best
technology available to minimize the adverse environmental impacts.  Revising
the plants NJPDES permit to comply with Phase II regulations offers one of
the most important opportunities to improve Barnegat Bay.
Put simply, the plant’s antiquated cooling water system causes
substantial negative impacts to the waterway, due to impingement,
entrainment, and thermal and pollutant discharges.  These impacts are
significant.  We will briefly review them tonight, however they are described
in detail in the position paper which has been submitted to you, the
Committee, and is also available on Clean Ocean Action’s Web site.
From the outset, it is important to note that an extensive scientific
literature review has revealed that all available data on impingement and
entrainment at the plant are the result of studies performed and/or funded by
the Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station.
In sum:  First, impingement impacts result from animals being
pinned against the grate where the water is pulled in from the creek.  Plant
records indicate 32 impinged and 13 deaths of endangered sea turtles,
including Kemp’s Ridley, Loggerheads, and Green Sea Turtles, since 1992.
The plant has repeatedly exceeded their annual incidental take allowances,
including an exceedence in 2004, when the plant impinged twice the allowable
take of the most endangered of all sea turtles, Kemp’s Ridley.
66
Additionally, over an approximately two-year period in the mid-
’70s, a study reported impingement of 13 million fish and invertebrates.
Another two-year study in the mid-’80s reported impingement of 22 million
fish and invertebrates.
Second, entrainment is when animals are sucked into the plant
and are subjected to numerous and potentially lethal impacts, including
thermal shock, shear pressure from water velocity and agitation, and
pummeling from contact with machinery.  Over a two-year period, over 90
trillion microzooplankton and 400 billion macrozooplankton were washed
through the system.
Third, the once-through cooling system results in an increase in
water temperature between 22 and 33 degrees Fahrenheit.  Water temperature
in the discharge canal can reach 110 degrees Fahrenheit, which affects the
behavior, physiology, and habitat utilization of aquatic organisms in the area.
The result can be a fatal attraction.  Fish can be attracted to the river in the
winter, when they should have migrated out of the area due to cold
temperatures.  Failure to migrate can lead to large-scale mortality due to
thermal shock, when the plant experiences a planned or emergency shutdown.
Records from January 1972 through December 1982 reported over 2.4 million
fish killed due to thermal shock, including Atlantic menhaden, bay anchovy,
bluefish, striped bass, and weakfish.
Fourth, during the final rinse, chlorine is injected through each of
the circulating pumps to prevent and remove fouling organisms such as
bacteria.  Chlorine directly kills phyto- and zooplankton entrained in the
cooling system, and can impact organisms residing in the discharge canal and
67
surrounding waters.  The plant has a permitted daily maximum discharge,
which is 20 times higher than the lethal limit of many estuarine species,
including striped bass, mummichogs, and bunker.
In short, the plant’s current activities significantly harm Barnegat
Bay.  This harm is avoidable and must be eliminated.  DEP is drafting a new
NJPDES permit for the plant.  Clean Ocean Action will analyze and comment
on the permit application and work to ensure that the new permit is consistent
with Federal and State laws, and adequately resolves the plant’s current marine
degradation issues, especially those related to the antiquated once-through
cooling system.  Clean Ocean Action urges this Committee, other
organizations, and individuals to do the same.
Finally, at the last hearing, Clean Ocean Action and several other
environmental groups accepted an invitation from the plant to take a tour of
the facility, as you did today.  Plant employees have canceled two scheduled
tours.  We continue to actively pursue a tour date.  We will advise the
Committee on any progress, as requested.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much for your
testimony.
We are now into the individuals -- Dave, I believe you are the first
one -- who did have the opportunity to testify at Brick.  So just for the sake of
expediting the process, we’re going to try to limit that testimony to three
minutes.  There are two people who haven’t -- on the opposed side -- who
haven’t yet testified.  They’ll get their five.
D A V I D   C H E R N E S K Y:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
68
My name is Dave Chernesky.  I’m a Stafford resident, also an
employee at the station.  And I want to thank all of you for taking the time to
come down and visit the plant and listen to everyone tonight.
I started on an adventure about a year ago.  And that adventure
was to educate myself a little bit more about what my neighbors know about
what I do.  And what I found is, they don’t know much about nuclear power.
They don’t know much about what I do as an individual.  So that adventure
is the same adventure you’re starting on right now.
There’s a lot of statistics that came out tonight.  What’s real and
what’s not?  You have to look at that, and take that into consideration, and
understand that.  And I thank you for taking the time for that, my family
thanks you, and my neighbors that know a little bit more now also thank you.
So, good night.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much, sir.
Kelly McNicholas.
And then Lynn Newton is next.
Kelly, you have your--
K E L L Y   M c N I C H O L A S:  Good evening.
Kelly McNicholas with the New Jersey Sierra Club.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak.
We have testified previously at these Committee hearings, and I
was going to take the opportunity to stand and say thank you again.  But I feel
like I must respond to the statement of NJBIA, because I find it shocking and
appalling that they’re calling for the increased production of nuclear power in
New Jersey.
69
Our 23,000 members of the Sierra Club, who are mothers, fathers,
children, and voters would not support anything like this.  We’re calling for the
decommissioning of this plant and opposing the extension of the license.
And it’s a testimony to your leadership tonight that you’re down
here listening to this.  And I hope that you continue that leadership by
pursuing what is a renewable energy policy in New Jersey.  It’s a big machine
that’s slowly starting to churn here.
There’s been a 550 percent increase in the use of solar in the State
of New Jersey in the last two years.  Unfortunately, what decisions you may
make about recommendations to Oyster Creek do not have a direct policy
effect.  But you can work on working with BPU to direct more resources to
their renewable energy programs, because that’s an issue that we’re hearing a
lot about -- that solar producers, and manufacturers, and distributors do not
have enough resources at BPU to continue their business, and let them grow
as much as they would like to, and get those rebates back.  Because there is a
demand for solar in New Jersey.
For those people who are opposing wind, pediatric asthma is one
of the greatest concerns for our children, these days, in New Jersey -- the
greatest health concern.  So by refusing a clean source like wind, that’s the
option you’re providing for our children -- regardless if it looks -- a foot above
the landscape.  Stick wind power off Seaside Heights.  You can paint it neon.
People will think it’s a tourist attraction.  It will blend right in up there.
(laughter)
As far as--  Again, I think it’s completely irresponsible to take the
position that New Jersey needs to create increased nuclear power.  Right now,
70
with the decommissioning -- if it were to take place in 2009 -- there’s enough
space at Yucca Mountain, should it open as scheduled, for the waste at Oyster
Creek to go there.  Continued production beyond that -- there will be nowhere
for that waste to go.  By 2011, if there’s an increase in nuclear production,
Yucca Mountain’s going to be filled.  We’re going to be stuck with that waste.
That is completely irresponsible.  It’s shortsighted.  It’s a corporate thinking
process that thinks immediate, short-term profits, not long-term health for our
families and for our children.  We oppose that.  We oppose the license
extension.
Thank you, again, for your time.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much.
Ms. Newton.
And Kevin Kamps is on deck.
L Y N N   N E W T O N:  How are you doing?
I’m Lynn Newton.  I’m from Warren Grove, New Jersey.  I’ve been
in Ocean County 23 years.  I am the Manager of chemistry, roadways, and
environmental at Oyster Creek.  And I thank you for giving us an opportunity
to talk today.
I’m honored to follow other colleagues and citizens who are
providing the environmental benefits of nuclear power.  They’re not here to
talk about losing their jobs, they’re not talking about money in their pocket,
and they’re not talking about lost taxes.  They’re talking about the
environment, and that impacts everybody.
So I’m here to talk about a couple environmental facts about
Oyster Creek.  These are 2004 facts.  And I’d like to share with you--  We had
71
an outage planned this April that was in compliances with the NJPDES permit.
But when we looked at the environmental impact it may cause to shut the
plant down in April, we rescheduled that.  We had contractors on site, people
ready to work.  But it didn’t make a difference.  When we looked at the
environmental conditions, and the proposed upcoming weather, we realized
that we were going to have an impact on the environment, and we rescheduled
that outage.
Our Fall outage -- we had a relatively warm Fall, and then had a
cold snap about four weeks before the outage was scheduled.  The
environmentalists at the plant noticed an increasing number of migratory fish
in the canal.  We hired a contractor to assess the species and the number of
fish in the canal.  We put a plan together to reduce the shutdown rate of the
plant, based on information we knew about mortality studies of the fish we
found in that canal.
In addition, we partnered with aquariums to come and take
specimens out of the canal and take excess fish and release them elsewhere so
they can continue to migrate.  We engaged an environmental specialist to
assist us, had the Department of Environmental Protection review our plan,
and also had the Department of Environmental Protection representative
walking the banks with our personnel during the shutdown of the plant.  I am
proud to say that the Oyster Creek Station had zero environmental negative
impact this year, the year 2004.
Fact:  We know it’s a challenge to operate the plant on an open
water like Barnegat Bay.  Barnegat Bay is an enormous natural resource.  And
we’re all blessed to live in an area that we can enjoy its benefits.  But, as such,
72
it’s important that Exelon maintains a good environmental stewardship.  The
plant is located on the bay, and it’s not on an isolated pond.  I assure you that
we operate the plant in accordance with the current NJPDES permit.
It’s important for us to understand the impact on the bay of our
operations.  It’s previously alleged tonight that, now, we’re required to
remonitor the impact the plant has on the bay.  We’ve always been required
to do that.  That’s not something new.  That’s required by the 316 Alpha and
Bravo Federal environmental laws.  Studies have been performed.  The results
were reviewed by the New Jersey DEP.  And that’s part of how you obtain a
new NJPDES permit.
Back to the challenge on the environment.  Migratory fish in the
bay pass by the discharge canal in the Fall as they’re being prompted to
migrate.  And they get into the canal and can actively winter over in the canal,
unless there is a trip of the plant.  As discussed earlier, by Mike Button, we’ve
made improvements in the plant to improve the reliability of it and train the
operators, which reduces plant trips and, therefore, protects the environment.
So if I can boil that down for you:  Those improvements are helping us protect
the environment.  And I’m proud to work for the company who has learned
from their mistakes and is moving forward to be an environmental steward.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much for your
testimony.
Mr. Kamps, you’re the last of the witnesses who has not testified
in the past.
K E V I N   K A M P S:  Thank you for this opportunity to speak.
73
My name is Kevin Kamps, from Nuclear Information and
Resource Service, in Washington, D.C.  And I’d like to focus on the high-level
radioactive waste issue at Oyster Creek.
And I just handed out the handout there for each of you.
In 1969, there were zero tons of high-level radioactive waste
located here.  After 25 years, in 1995, there were 374 tons of high-level
radioactive waste at Oyster Creek.  By the end of 2002, there were over 500
tons.  By the year 2011, there will be nearly 700 tons of high-level radioactive
waste at Oyster Creek.  And that year 2011 is a very important one.  Even
though Oyster Creek’s license would end in 2009, the year 2011 is when Yucca
Mountain is full.
Just this past Monday, the Department of Energy announced for
the first time that Yucca Mountain cannot open until 2012.  Before, they had
said 2010.  So that means in the year 2011, before Yucca Mountain opens --
if it ever opens -- it will already be full.  It will just be a question of moving the
waste there.
So if Oyster Creek gets a license extension, if it operates 10 more
years to 2019, there would be 844 tons of high-level radioactive waste.  If it
gets a 20-year license extension, there will be over 1,000 tons of high-level
radioactive waste at Oyster Creek.
And what this means is, all the waste made after 2011 would be
excess to Yucca Mountain’s capacity to take it.  So unless there’s a second
repository opened in the eastern United States, that waste -- over 300 tons of
high-level radioactive waste -- would have nowhere to go.  It would be stuck
here at Oyster Creek.
74
And what is high-level radioactive waste?  It’s a very deadly
material.  It can deliver a lethal dose of radiation in just minutes without
radiation shielding.  And that’s why it’s such a potentially catastrophic terrorist
target, as well as accident potential.
Just last week, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission admitted that
there will be 51 dry cask storage facilities in the United States by the year
2010.  And just recently -- last week -- in the New York Times, the nuclear power
industry was quoted as saying, “Even without Yucca Mountain, we’ll be okay.
We have dry cask storage,” which is hypocritical, because in the year 2002,
before the U.S. Congress, they said, “We need Yucca Mountain, immediately,
as a homeland security measure.”
Just recently, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission gave a 40-year
license extension to dry cask storage at the Surry Nuclear Plant in Virginia.  So
that means 60 years of dry cask storage at Surry, Virginia.  This is the trend
in the industry.
I’d also like to point out that Exelon fired a whistle-blower named
Oscar Shirani, who blew the whistle on problems with the Holtec containers,
which are dry cask storage containers.  They’re also transportation containers.
So that gives some indication of Exelon’s corporate character -- that they fired
someone who was doing his job, trying to expose problems with dry cask
storage.  And I’d be happy to provide those documents to you.
I’d like to respond to an earlier statement: The NRC should be
trusted with these decisions.  It’s been mentioned -- the Davis-Besse near-
disaster in Ohio.  It came within a very narrow margin of the worst accident
since Three Mile Island, just a couple years ago.  And the NRC’s own inspector
75
general reported that the NRC had put the financial profit of the company
above public safety.  And the NRC commissioners rejected their own inspector
general’s report.
The NRC also conducted a survey within the NRC of its staff, and
found that over 50 percent of the staff fear raising safety concerns within the
NRC, which is a very unhealthy sign.  And over 50 percent also feel that the
NRC’s mission of public safety and environmental protection is not the
priority at the NRC.  This is the NRC’s own staff, the NRC’s own survey.
Oyster Creek has routine releases to air and water of radioactivity
and other toxic chemicals.  In terms of global warming impacts, uranium
enrichment, alone, has global warming impacts.  There’s a string of coal fire
plants on the Ohio River whose sole purpose for existence is to enrich uranium
to use as fuel in nuclear power plants. 
And about Europe -- countries in Europe, such as Germany, and
Denmark, and Sweden, and Italy have either already phased out nuclear power
or are on the path to phasing it out.  And they are also leaving the United
States in the dust on such technologies as wind power and solar power. The
United States is far behind these smaller countries, in terms of renewable
energy technology.
And I’d just like to point out that it’s not a choice between coal
and nuclear power.  Human beings are smarter than that.  There are
renewables.  There’s wind and solar.  There’s also conservation and efficiency.
Just to take Germany as an example.  They have the same standard of living
as we do, but they use half the electricity, per capita, to achieve that standard
of living.  We can do so much better here, and I hope that we will.
76
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much for your
testimony.
Okay, the final six witnesses -- three from each side of the opinion
-- some of whom are married to others who’ve already testified, others come
from the same organization.  So, again, since you’ve already had the chance to
address this Committee--  Please, I’m going to call you up, but try to limit it
to something that might be new that wasn’t already stated by you the last time.
So let me just call Buddy Thoman -- and to be followed by
Suzanne Leta.
B U D D Y   T H O M A N:  How are you doing?
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Hi.
MR. THOMAN:  It’s nice to see you again.
My name is Bud Thoman.  I am a Business Agent for the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.  I’m also a resident of Ocean
County.
I am here on behalf of the 35,000 members of the New Jersey
IBEW.  We represent one in every 100 workers in New Jersey, many in your
district.
I want to address three issues.  First is the competency of the
NRC.  Second is the job losses that will occur.  And third is the ancillary job
losses.
First, the NRC.  Rather than criticize the NRC, we should applaud
them.  These are highly skilled professionals, upon whom we can rely to make
77
honest, informed decisions.  Their agenda is safety and nothing else.  Their
efforts take the politics out of the process and protect us all.
The immediate job loss is an issue.  That is my second point.
Here, I will rely on history.  When the Zion plant closed, the more than 800-
person workforce was almost immediately slashed to about 150.  Within two
years, they numbered less than 50.  There were no replacement jobs.  To think
that there would be replacement jobs if Oyster Creek closed is foolhardy.
Those middle-class jobs would disappear forever.
And third, the job losses won’t end there.  Oyster Creek is a
massive economic contributor to the town, the region, and the state.
Hundreds of security people, and many hundreds more tradesmen and women
earn all or part of their taxpaying income from Oyster Creek.  Small shops,
restaurants, and others would be affected.  And that says nothing about the
loss of emergency training and property tax contributions made to Lacey and
the county.
And why are these points so important?  Because this is a hearing
about the closing of a plant with a record of safety, reliability, and cleanliness.
The record is clear.  The decision should be, as well.
Thank you for the time to speak.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much for your
testimony.
Ms. Leta, I’m going to just hold off for a second, because as I
promised, Mayor Quinn has arrived.
First and foremost, Mayor, in absentia, we all thanked you very
much for your hospitality in making arrangements for this evening, for joining
78
us earlier before the tour.  And we hope that this provides some sense of respite
from what I’m sure are arduous budget hearings.  (laughter)
M A Y O R   G A R Y   Q U I N N:  Yes, I do appreciate your taking the time
to let me say a few words this evening.  I thank you very much, and I apologize
for being late.
I prepared a statement, which I’d like to read into the record as
testimony on behalf of myself.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  That’s your prerogative.  As a
colleague and Mayor, you’re the only person that I won’t even think about
limiting.  So you take the time you want.
MAYOR QUINN:  Thank you very much.  I appreciate that.
Mr. Chairman, Committee members, I apologize for being late this
evening.
Unfortunately, due to a conflict, we had a very important
Township Committee meeting.  Our entire governing body has been tied up
this evening.  However, I would like to welcome all of you to Lacey Township.
I would also like to welcome the residents of Lacey Township, as well as
residents from other neighboring communities who may be with us this
evening.
Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the Committee deciding to hold this
information hearing in Lacey Township.  It is entirely appropriate to have the
dialogue on the Oyster Creek Generating Station in the community which is
home and, arguably, the most impacted community by this facility.
Clearly, having Oyster Creek here has been of tremendous
economic value to our township and to this region.  The well-paying jobs and
79
multiplier impact of the purchase of goods, services, homes, and products in
this region continue to help our economic engine.  As long as this facility
continues to operate both safely and securely, we want to continue this
partnership of low-cost and reliable power, and local economic benefits as far
into the future as possible.  To that end, if the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
review agrees, we support the 20-year license renewal proposal being put forth
by AmerGen.
We understand that a number of nuclear plants in this country
have already had their licenses renewed, with many more in the process of
being reviewed currently.  It is also our understanding that there have been
several plants that have decided not to go through the license renewal process
due to their own and NRC safety and economic reviews.
Just to get to the point where these plants are being considered for
license renewal suggests to us that these plants have been well-maintained from
both the capital investment and an operating perspective.  We have confidence
in the ongoing oversight reviews that are taking place by the NRC.  And we are
confident that the NRC’s independence and strong expertise will ensure a
rigorous review of all the issues that will occur, prior to the NRC making a
decision on license renewal.
Although we believe that Oyster Creek was already a safe facility,
we are very happy to see the enhanced security measures being put in place
this past year.
As a former school board member, I have dealt with issues about
funding, promises, and dedicated funds.  Some have suggested that, because
of the previously passed legislation, that even if Oyster Creek were to close,
80
Lacey Township residents would continue to receive State moneys in lieu of
the taxes that we now collect from the plant.
Oyster Creek is an important component of our revenue stream,
and we think that keeping this plant operating holds a better promise for
continued revenue streams to the township of Lacey.  One stroke of the pen
could put an additional $11 million on the backs of the senior citizens and
citizens of Lacey Township.  In addition to that, Oyster Creek has paid $9.2
million in direct sales and local taxes.  And the employees who work at the
plant paid another $3 million in local taxes.
Finally, I noted Oyster Creek has had a few missteps over the
years.  The fish kill was an unfortunate occurrence.  However, my belief is in
speaking with Bud Swenson down at the plant, and his management team --
that they are committed to the safest operation of this plant and would do
nothing to jeopardize the trust we have placed into them.  This was recently
demonstrated in the most recent refueling outage at the plant.  In conjunction
with the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, Oyster Creek
undertook extensive measures to ensure the safety of the fish population.
Many of the folks that work at that plant live in close proximity
to this plant.  I have high confidence in their commitment and the work ethic
that exists in the men and women who are part of that plant.  I know many of
them personally, and I hope that you have the opportunity to hear from some
of them this evening.  I see a lot of these employees coaching Little League
teams, volunteering at the fire company, organizing and participating in
churches and community functions throughout the township.  In addition to
81
all the hours that they dedicate to community service, they’ve also contributed
over $176,000 to the local United Way here in Ocean County.
I want to close again by thanking you for the opportunity to be
heard this evening, and would welcome any of you to return to Lacey
Township at any time.
On behalf of myself and the Township Committee, I thank you
very much.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very much, Mayor.  We
really appreciate it.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  As a fellow mayor, and Mayor
McKeon also, I’m struck by the numbers that you quoted.  You’re saying that
it would be a direct loss of tax dollars of $11 million, and then ancillary losses
of 9 and 3.
MAYOR QUINN:  Yes, the $11 million would be the franchise tax
that we would lose if the plant were to close down.  The additional tax I quoted
would be plant -- taxes we receive on the plant and the local taxes we receive
from the people that work in the plant that actually live in the community.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  So you’re looking at about $23
million.  You gave me 11, 9, and 3.  I was writing down quickly.
MAYOR QUINN:  Right.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  That’s absolutely--  What is your
total budget in the town?
MAYOR QUINN:  If that were to happen in Lacey Township,
we’re talking about a 75 percent increase to the taxpayers of Lacey Township
in a one-year period.  The $176,000 I spoke about is additional moneys that
82
the folks that work in that plant have taken out of their paychecks.  And it’s
just donations that are made to different charities throughout Ocean County.
So it’s going to have a very serious impact on us.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  My Councilman from Northvale is
here.  He’s also a resident of Lacey Township and has a summer place.  His jaw
dropped when you were mentioning the 75 percent increase.
Wayne.
MAYOR QUINN:  Wayne, I hope if you were in opposition,
you’ve changed your opinion now.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  No, no.  (laughter)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  There is also the possibility of a
bene tax, though.  You could just go that way.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  But he doesn’t get to vote down
here, either.  That’s the other thing.
MAYOR QUINN:  I appreciate very much being heard.  But it
would have a very, very serious impact on the community here.  Oyster Creek
has been a very good neighbor to us.  They provide a lot of jobs.  These folks
are very involved in the community.
I’ve been in the town 26 years, and I think it’s--  My children were
raised in town, my wife and I still live in town.  And we--  I have toured the
plant, just like yourselves, and I feel very safe.  And I have expressed that to
the community and Lacey Township people.
So I do thank you for making the effort of coming down and
seeing that plant today, because it really does mean a lot.
83
If I could just ask one last thing.  Mr. Most, who was going to read
my statement if I was not able to get out of our meeting -- if he could just be
allowed the opportunity to also speak on his own behalf tonight, because I
kind of took his spot away from him.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  It would be our pleasure.
Thank you, Mayor.
MAYOR QUINN:  Thank you very much.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Suzanne Leta.
And, Mr. Most, you’ll speak next, if that’s okay.
S U Z A N N E   L E T A:  It doesn’t work for the short folks.  (referring to
PA microphone)
I’d like to thank you very much for holding this hearing in Lacey
today.
I’ll try and make my comments very brief.
You know why we oppose this plant -- primarily its age and design.
The population growth has just tripled in size.  And an evacuation is nearly
impossible, especially for seniors and children.
What I want to focus on is the decommissioning of Oyster Creek,
because I know there is a lot of concern about jobs.  I know there’s concern
about the $11.5 million in the energy tax subsidy that Lacey currently receives.
So I first just want to address the $11.5 million.  I’ve spoken in
depth with Senator Connors.  And in 1997, he was a key player in making sure
a bill passed that allows Lacey Township to continue receiving that subsidy,
whether or not the plant is open or generating electricity.  So I want to make
it clear that, obviously, there is 9 and three -- there’s 12 -- there’s another $12
84
million there.  But that 11.5 is granted in perpetuity.  So I want to make that
clear.
I also just want to talk quickly about the two types of
decommissioning processes.  Exelon has been telling their staff that they’re
planning on mothballing the plant, which is called a SAFESTOR process.  In
essence, it mothballs a plant, allowing radioactive material around the plant to
decay before it’s removed.  Sometimes for decades -- and actually typically for
decades.  And, typically, companies use this SAFESTOR process to
decommission a reactor when there’s another reactor nearby in the same site
that’s still in operation.  So Exelon is already using this method at Dresden in
Illinois, for example, and Peach Bottom in Pennsylvania.
However, Oyster Creek -- where there’s only one unit -- would
make a good candidate for what’s called DECON.  And with DECON, a plant
is properly decommissioned and dismantled.  And to lower the risk of
radioactivity to workers, plant owners can also choose to remove the slightly
radioactive material first, and then allowing some of the more contaminated
material to decay a little bit and then remove it later.
The story of Maine Yankee’s decommissioning is a good example.
The decommissioning started in 1997 and is now almost complete.  There’s
about two to four months left.  And Maine Yankee is a plant that’s just slightly
larger than Oyster Creek.  And it’s now actually six years into the--  Well, I
should say, when the plant first operated, it had about 475 employees.  Six
years into the decommissioning, there were 430.  In fact, three-quarters of the
way through, 430 people were still working at that plant.  So we think it’s a
pretty good option for Oyster Creek.
85
And then, according to Ray Shadis, who works for the New
England Coalition, the plant owners actually had to install something -- they
had to use something called golden handcuffs, where they gave employees
bonuses just to stay on site, because they had experience with that particular
plant -- for the decommissioning process.
You know that there’s plenty of funds to decommission this plant
fully.  We want to make sure that the State does the right thing, and that you
do the right thing, not just by asking -- or the NRC -- and by working with the
Governor to make sure this plant is closed on schedule -- but also that the
employees are taken into consideration when this plant is decommissioned.
And I want to just make that very clear -- that there are different types of ways
to decommission a plant.  And you want to do it the right way.
Thanks.
ASSEMBLYMAN 
McKEON: 
 
Thank 
you 
very 
much.
Decommissioning is something that will be part of our evaluative process and
we’ll learn more about.
Mr. Most.
D A V I D   M O S T:  Good evening.
My name is David Most.  I’ve been working at Oyster Creek for
23 years now.  I wear many hats.  I sit on a solid waste advisory committee for
the county.  I also sit on the economic and development committee for Lacey
Township.  I really appreciate you guys coming down and taking a tour of
Oyster Creek.  I respect that.
What I wanted to discuss tonight is, we discussed the economic
impact.  We talked about the jobs.  But I think we’re missing the big picture,
86
and that’s the infrastructure.  If we remove Oyster Creek from the grid, that
means that we lost 650 megawatts of base power.
Now, for the folks -- like Dave Chernesky got up here -- a plant
employee -- and was talking about how this is educational.  Well, a base-load
plant like Oyster Creek runs seven days a week, 24 hours a day.  We may come
down for different, small maintenance outages, but that machine pretty much
maintains a high capacity factor for two years.  And then we shut it down, and
then we refuel it, and then it goes another two years.
So the one speaker that got up there and was talking about
irresponsibility -- and I’d like to address that issue.  Because I, too, have
learned quite a lot about renewable energies, because, obviously, these folks
have some concerns.  And I don’t think I would be responsible standing up
here, not educating myself on renewable energies.  So I did that through a
couple different avenues.  I did that through the Web site, and I also called
some different companies and contacts that I got through the industry.
And there were some pretty interesting facts that deal--  The
Department of Energy did some -- they call them wind density studies across the
country.  And it turns out, the highest capacity factors for wind power
generation is during the winter and the spring seasons, where we have storms.
My point being is that it does not replace a base-load generator.  It is an
excellent complement to a base-load generator, because it complements the
power in high-load demands.
So I say to you folks, if you look at the DOE Web site, and you
look at the study they did, they actually classified the wind density speeds.
And in our area--  They classify them one through nine, nine being the
87
strongest winds.  Well, a number -- Class 2 -- they won’t even build a wind
farm.  Well, we’re in a Class 2 area in this area.  Out West is where they build
the big wind farms.
Now, each windmill is capable of producing 1.5 megawatts.  Now,
we’re a 650-megawatt reactor.  So you divide that by 1.5, you have to build
433 windmills to equate to Oyster Creek.
So I think when it comes to responsibility, we really have to
research what renewable energies can do for us, because, obviously, we all
consume electricity.  And I’m talking as a resident, and I’m talking about the
different hats that I wear.  I’m talking about a person who lives out in the
community.
So, again, I wish this board would support the relicense of Oyster
Creek.  And thank you for coming out tonight.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you, sir.
Okay.  I promised to be concluded by 10:00.  And if I want to
allow the panel to get a word or two in edgewise--  So, with the last four
witnesses, what I’m going to do is call up Mr. Wyatt Earp and Mr. Wayne
Romberg together.  You guys can come on up.
We’ll want a gun battle, that’s sure, Mr. Earp.  (laughter)
W Y A T T   E A R P:  I’ll make it very brief.
Good evening, everybody.  We’ll miss the formalities.
You know who I am.  I’m Wyatt Earp.  I’m with the IBEW, and
also with the AFL-CIO for Monmouth and Ocean Counties.
But I also want to make the point that I’m a resident.  I’ve raised
my wife and three children here.  And like so many of us, in these times, have
88
had the cancer issues in my family, too.  So I am cognizant of that.  But I want
to just put a couple of facts -- couple of things that I heard -- and put some
facts and things in perspective.
You heard the 433 windmills -- that’s assuming that the windmills
operate all the time, which they don’t.  They’re a 30 percent factor, so it
actually takes you to 1,299 windmills. 
The other issue that I heard over and over again this evening was
that the plant is not intended -- or wasn’t intended to last 40 years.  I won’t
make the same joke I made last time I testified.  But, in fact, they’ve spent
hundreds of millions to keep the plant up to date.  So we have to take that all
into perspective.  It’s not the same plant they built 40 years ago.  It’s not the
same plant that was there 20 years ago.  It’s constantly being updated.
The NRC inspectors -- I heard that--  I actually know some of
these people.  I think I know a little bit about physics.  These guys are--  I’m
embarrassed as to how smart they are and how honorable they are.  They’re
some of the best people I know.
We heard talk about the fish kills which have been addressed.  But
the point I want to make on the fish kills -- that’s been addressed.  It’s been
fixed.  But keep in mind -- and we talk about--  I’m a union guy, and the issues
are -- do we just care about jobs?  Well, we do.  But we hear over and over
again -- everybody who testified that worked there lives in this area, they raise
their family in this area.  And when there was that fish kill, the employees --
the union employees of that company and others were afraid to talk to the
press, were afraid to say what went wrong.  There was no secrets.  It wasn’t
89
like, “If you say a word--”  The people who talked about those fish kills are still
working there today.  So let’s not just miss that either -- that there’s people.
The greenhouse gases--  We know what fossil generation does, the
amount of tons, and how it all floats in the air and flies all over.  We heard the
tons of nuclear waste talked about -- the fuel rods.  In perspective, we’re
talking about a swimming pool or a three-car garage worth of fuel rods, as
opposed to stuff that’s floating throughout the atmosphere everywhere we are.
The solar--  Same thing--
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Mr. Earp, it’s not going to help if
you don’t look up at me.  (laughter)
MR. EARP:  What?
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  I need you to wrap up.
MR. EARP:  Okay.
Solar and wind is not 24/7.  They are building nukes in Europe.
The power line issue -- because if they don’t -- if the nuke isn’t here, or power
plant isn’t here, you’ve got to build power lines to get it here.
The terrorist targets--  Let me just tell you, if I were a terrorist, I’d
go for a refinery.  I’d go for a liquid natural gas plant, because it would be a
heck of a lot easier to hit, and they’d do a lot more damage than just trying to
get through six feet of concrete and a whole lot of steel.
The other thing -- let me just -- Oyster Creek--  I heard somebody
liken it to Chernobyl.  And that’s probably the sickest thing.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Mr. Earp, please.
MR. EARP:  Last point.
90
Chernobyl was a graphite plant with no containment.  Oyster
Creek -- steel reactor.  Then you have your dry well area around that, which is
steel and concrete, and then six feet of concrete around that.
And then, lastly -- and I’ve spoken to this -- strontium-90.  You
look at the science, because everybody’s quoting science--  If you look at the
NRC, the DEP commission, everything says that the man-made -- other
sources -- other man-made sources--  It’s not Oyster Creek that’s bringing the
SR-90 in here.  And you can’t even detect what we make in the teeth.
And the report prepared--
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Mr. Romberg has yielded his time
to the gentleman from--
MR. EARP:  The National Institute of Health, entitled “Cancer in
Populations Living Near Nuclear Facilities” (sic)--  There’s no reason,
whatsoever, to believe nuclear power plants are contributing.
That’s it.  We’ve got to educate ourselves before we complain.
Thank you very much.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you.
Wayne.
W A Y N E   R O M B E R G:  I’m a Republican, so I get seven minutes.
(laughter)
I want to thank the Mayor.  I’m one of his taxpayers.  Actually,
I’m a new resident.  I live on the south branch of the Forked River.  And where
I live it’s fishing.  All we worry about is fishing.  And what we worry about is
mercury in the fish.
91
We talked a lot about the plant.  Everybody’s in support of
renewing it.  What we don’t need is to see more coal plants, because that puts
mercury in the fish, and we can’t eat them.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Very kind of you.  Thank you, sir.
Last two witnesses:  Paul Gunter and William Costanzo -- if you
guys can come up together.
P A U L   G U N T E R:  Thank you.
My name is Paul Gunter.  I’m with Nuclear Information Resource
Service, in Washington, D.C.
I’d like to--  We have to put into context, also, that we’re not only
talking about tax dollars, but if you look at the Sandia study for the calculation
for reactor accident consequence, we’re also talking about potentially hundreds
of billions of dollars in property damage and health consequence from an
accident.  So a lot depends on how much confidence you have in the Oyster
Creek design.
In fact, Oyster Creek and the Mark I’s is one of the key reactors
in this country that should have been recalled in 1971, when the Atomic
Energy Commission identified it as not a quality product.  Oyster Creek should
have, again, been recalled in 1985, when Harold Denton, with the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, told an industry conference that there was a 90
percent chance of failure of that containment.
And instead of a recall, in fact, what we got -- and probably what
you didn’t see on your tour today -- was the direct torus vent system, which
was installed in 1989 and provides operators at Oyster Creek and other Mark
92
I’s around the country with a choice that, in the event of an accident, they can
vent containment in order to save it.  That’s because this containment has
been identified, long, as inadequate and not a quality product.  And that’s
what we face today with an aging facility.
But what about the NRC?  This is the same agency that oversaw
this direct torus vent system installation.  They are now going to be in charge
of the relicensing.
And I wanted to end with just a couple of quotes to put their
independence into context.  The first is from an investigative report that was
presented by the Subcommittee on General Oversight and Investigations,
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, U.S. Congress, in December 1987.
It reads, “Over the past several years, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has
demonstrated an unhealthy empathy for the needs of the nuclear industry to
the detriment of the safety of the American people.”  That quote goes on, and
you can continue to read that within the handouts that I’ve provided you.
But to put that into a more current context, the Office of the
Inspector General, in a report issued on December 30, 2002, entitled “NRC’s
Regulation of Davis-Besse Regarding Damage to the Reactor Vessel Head,”
what they quoted was to say, “NRC staff considered the financial impact to the
licensee of an unscheduled plant shutdown.  The fact that NRC allowed Davis-
Besse to continue operating without performing inspections was driven in large
part by a desire to lessen the financial impact on FirstEnergy, the operator, that
would have resulted in an early shutdown.”
And, in closing, the same agency that is going to be considering the
relicensing hearing -- the U.S. Government Accountability Office, in a May
93
2004 report, said, “NRC has proposed no actions to help it better, one,
identify early indications of deteriorating safety conditions at power plants;
two, decide whether to shut a plant down, or; three, monitor actions taken in
response to incidents at plants.”
You’ve heard tonight--
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Sir, I’ve got to ask you to wrap up,
please.
MR. GUNTER:  You have heard tonight that there is a very
significant population around this plant that has no confidence in the safety
or regulatory oversight of this agency.  And I submit to you that there is a long
history that has resulted in them arriving at that position.
Thank you.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you, sir.
Mr. Costanzo.
W I L L I A M   C O S T A N Z O:  Okay.  Thank you for being here, and
thank you for any chance to speak.
I’ll make it quick.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  Could you adjust the microphone?
MR. COSTANZO:  Oh, this one.  (referring to PA microphone)
I’ll make it quick.
Last night, on the news, I saw that the attorney generals of seven
states basically said that the NRC is on the side of industry.  That was on
CNN.  Previously, in 2002, 27 attorney generals made a plea to various
94
congressmen for more safety at the plants, because they didn’t feel that the
plants were safe.  So much for the NRC.
I want to comment on the gas -- the use of gas in plants.  There is
a--  There was a nuclear plant in Colorado which changed over to gas.  When
they finally did the whole changeover, the output went up.  So it is a very, very
viable alternative to nuclear.
Incidently, the nuclear industry is subsidized at $7.1 billion a year.
If you divide that out by 103 plants, you get about $70 million per plant.  So
if you figure what they’re putting out -- it’s being subsidized.  So every kilowatt
that you’re paying for is being subsidized by the government.
Now, I’d like to also comment on how clean everything is.  We
talk about how clean it is, because the air looks nice and clean.  We don’t have
any black smoke in the air.  Nuclear power generation depends on uranium.
U.S. power plants use more than 40 million pounds of uranium.  That’s 40
million.
Now, after the uranium ore is mined, uranium is extracted, leaving
behind large volumes of what’s called uranium mill tailings.  These have the
appearance of sand, and they’re considered low-level.  But these tailings -- they
put out ground and surface -- they pollute the ground and the surface water
with radioactive and nonradioactive toxic substance, such as polychlorinated
biphenyls, that’s PCBs; chlorine, ammonia nitrates, zinc, and arsenic.
Now, in Utah, the toxins leaking from the Moab uranium tailings
pile have contaminated ground water supplies and traveled down the Colorado
River, contaminating the source of drinking water for approximately 25 million
95
people.  That’s 7 percent of the U.S. population.  But they keep saying it’s
clean.  It’s not clean.  It’s very, very dirty.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Mr. Costanzo, I noted that you’re
reading from something.  We’d be happy for you to get copies, to the extent
that you can.  And we’ll consider it.  And I’m going to ask you to wrap up now.
MR. COSTANZO:  All right.
I just wanted to say that, because they talk about how dirty coal
is, but the thousands of pounds of coal don’t compare with the 40 million
pounds of uranium, which is far, far worse.  So they both pollute.  But the
uranium is going to kill us.
Incidently, one of the byproducts of the whole nuclear industry is
-- I believe it’s called tritium.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  I’m going to ask you to make your
final point.
MR. COSTANZO:  Yes, final point.
Tritium is a radioactive form of hydrogen.  What does that mean?
Water is made up -- H2O, two hydrogen, one oxygen.  So, essentially, you use
hydrogen atoms in our body.  Now, if anyone gets some of these tritium atoms
in their body, or in their genetic material -- particularly in the genetic material
-- it’s going to make an awful mess.  And, essentially, they are polluting us like
crazy.
So, these are some of the things that you don’t see but are
happening to us.  That’s it.
Thank you.
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you very, very much. 
96
Let me thank you.
First off, let me just say a few quick thank yous, and then I’m
going to allow my colleagues to have a word or two to say.
First, thank you to the State Police.  They all -- on your way out --
have passes.  You can go as fast as you want to get home tonight.  (laughter)
But I appreciate your professionalism, and thank you.
I’d like to thank members of the staff.  Becky and Mike work for
OLS and have been terrific in taping today’s procedures.  Thea Sheridan is
with partisan Republican staff, and Dave Eber is with partisan Democratic
staff.  I don’t know -- Kate McInerney was back there too, also with partisan
staff.
I mention partisan, because, you know, the truth is, this isn’t a
partisan issue.  It’s not Democrat, Republican, Independent.  This is about all
of us.  And, hopefully, in a way that we’ll conduct ourselves in a bipartisan way
-- as our staff will -- I hope that the State thinks of this issue, in doing the right
thing, having nothing to do with politics.
Carrie Anne Calvo has an incredible reputation as a member of the
Office of Legislative Services.
And we’re fortunate, as citizens, to have you, Carrie.  Thank you.
I’d like us to take a moment and give all of the professionals a
round of applause.  (applause)
Of course, Mayor Quinn, again, thank you.
Lacey Township police who’ve been here, thank you very much.
And last but not least, on the thank yous, are to the citizens.
Other than Mr. Gayley, who I almost had to have restrained three or four
97
times (laughter), everybody has conducted themselves as I would expect all of
you would.  And we really appreciate -- not withstanding the passions that
came out in your testimony -- the way that you respected each other and
respected our time.  So thank you all very, very much for that.
I have a few things to say, in sum, substantively, but I’m going to
start to my right, to the Dean of the Legislature -- as correctly stated --
Assemblyman Rooney.
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  Actually, I am the Dean of the
Legislature.  And I’ve been on the Environment Committee for many, many
years.  I was vice chair when Maureen Ogden was the chairperson of that
Committee, when we had to pass legislation, basically, in compliance with the
Clean Air Act.  And since that time, New Jersey has not met its obligation,
under the Clean Air Act.  We are the most polluted state in the country, bar
none.  We never meet the Clean Air Act.  We could turn off everything in this
state, every automobile, every power plant, and we still would not meet the
standards of the Clean Air Act.  That’s a major problem.
We keep telling our people to clean up.  The problem is that the
air coming from west of us, coming west to east, pollutes our state.  And most
of that comes from power plants in other states that are coal-fired power
plants.  They’re the dirtiest plants imaginable.  They should be cleaning that
up to clean up New Jersey’s air.  And that’s the problem.
I’ve been fighting the battle of MTBE, as an additive for gasoline,
because it’s supposed to have less carbon dioxide in the air.  The only problem
is, it puts things like formaldehyde in the air.  So we can be either -- have
98
carbon dioxide or be embalmed as we drive along.  So these are the paradoxes
that are basically presented to us.
Are you in favor of the environment?  Because nuclear power does
have less pollution here in New Jersey, not where the nuclear fuel is produced.
But, here in New Jersey, it is a benefit to our environment.
I listen to testimony that says that we’ll have the approximation
of three million new cars on the road if we eliminate this particular plant.  But
right now, 30 percent of the pollution in this state is created by automobiles.
So if you’re going to take 30 percent and have another three million cars, we’re
going to double the number -- or the pollution in our state.  This is the wrong
thing to do.
Economically, this power plant produces power at two to three
cents per kilowatt hour.  I checked that today.  I asked the question.
Jim, you’re here.  Thank you for the information.
Two to three cents a kilowatt hour is good economic sense,
because I think on the grid, right now, the power pool is paying three and a
half cents or four cents a kilowatt hour to purchase -- this is public service and
other people -- are purchasing off the grid for that.
Now, the only comparison here is a coal fire plant, which would
be approximately the same, or maybe even higher -- at a higher cost of
pollution.  So, economically, it doesn’t make sense to close this plant.
I listened to the IBEW, AFL-CIO.  If we’re going to lose whatever
number of jobs this is, this is another economic problem.  (cellular phone rings)
Is that me?  I cannot believe it.  I’m sorry.  I apologize.
99
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  It’s your wife telling you to sum up,
sir.  (laughter)
ASSEMBLYMAN ROONEY:  Very good, Mr. Chairman.  Very
good.
So the issue of job loss is a problem.
I do have a concern for the residents with the safety issues.  I’m
concerned with the building itself.  The reactor building concerns do trouble
me, and they should trouble all of us.  If somebody can get into that plant--
(cellular phone rings)
I apologize again.  This is going off.
But if that can be resolved by the plant, then let’s do it.  Let’s get
it done.  We need to get those concerns done.
The nuclear waste is another problem.  There’s no way in the
world we can predict what’s going to happen down the road.  The Federal
government is responsible for making sure this nuclear waste is safeguarded.
We certainly--  And I know a lot of--  I was thinking, where are the subsidies?
And part of the subsidies are to develop a place -- a safe place for the spent
nuclear fuel.  And I don’t want anybody else but the government to maintain
that and it keep it safe.  That’s a big concern.
So there are concerns.  But I don’t want to throw out the baby
with the bath water.  I really don’t.  I’d like to see, as much as possible -- we
solve these problems, these concerns that the residents have.  And I leave that
to the people at Exelon.
100
Listen to what has been said here tonight.  Address those concerns
-- the safety concerns -- and then maybe we can go forward together and do the
right thing.
So that’s my observation.  I’m sorry I missed the first meeting.
But I really appreciated being at the plant, being able to see the security.  I was
totally impressed.  In my job, I have had to go--  My councilman couldn’t get
in the plant.  He didn’t have a photo ID and wasn’t prescreened.  But in my
job in the electrical industry, I’ve had to go to maximum security prisons and
go through their security system.  Let me tell you, that plant has better security
than Shawangunk prison in New York, which is the maximum security prison.
That is the epitome.  And it’s nothing compared to this.
So, again, thank you for the tour.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Assemblyman.
ASSEMBLYMAN GORDON:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I’d like to add my thanks to all of you for coming here this
evening.  We heard an awful lot tonight, and I learned a lot.
I’d particularly like to thank the staff of Oyster Creek for the tour
that I was given today, which I found very enlightening.
I’m going to withhold my judgement about this issue until our
hearings are completed, but I would like to pick up on a couple of points that
we have discussed during the course of these two hearings.  We heard a
number of comments today about -- concerns about the evacuation plan.  And
I’d like to respectfully request, through the Chair, that this Committee obtain
a copy of the evacuation plan for Oyster Creek, so that we can evaluate it.
101
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  It’s an excellent suggestion.  I’ll
make certain that, assuming it’s not proprietary -- or if it is, I’ll have it, in a
privileged way, distributed to us and the Homeland Security Committee in
anticipation of that hearing.
ASSEMBLYMAN GORDON:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Also, at our last hearing, I raised questions and made some
comments about the public alerting system in place at Oyster Creek.  I
expressed some concerns about the effectiveness of sirens and the
opportunities available now with new technologies for public alerting,
particularly high-speed telephone alerting systems.
I would be interested in hearing from, perhaps in letter form --
hearing from either Exelon corporate or plant management as to the status of
any kind of review that is going on of the alternatives to the siren system.
Again, I just want to thank everyone for coming tonight and for
participating in this most important issue facing your community and our
state.
Thank you very much.  (applause)
ASSEMBLYMAN McKEON:  Thank you, Assemblyman.
Very briefly, in conclusion -- and I said at the outset, thanks to
Bud Swenson and all the good people at the Oyster Creek plant, again, for
their hospitality and for the informative tour today.  And I do thank you for
that.
At our next Committee hearing in Trenton, we’ll collectively talk
about our next step.  There will be at least one, if not two, more hearings out
in the public.  Perhaps one in Monmouth County, maybe another one a little
102
south or west of here, and then, certainly, a hearing in Trenton, whereupon
we’ll meet with Homeland Security, as I referenced.
Just a couple of things, where I’ve kind of come in the process, and
a few things picked up today--  Frankly, in one level -- is what I expected.  And
I can tell, based upon my prior research from the testimony in Brick, and from
seeing it first hand, that there is no doubt that there are trained, dedicated
professionals that make up the 450 people that work and man that power
plant.  I think that that is clearly a given.  We happened to run into some -- a
full-time member of the NRC who is on-site, not weekly, monthly, or semi-
annually, but constantly there to make certain that everything is in accord with
-- as it should be.  And so I have no question that the people that are on-site
are as highly trained as could possibly be, and that to the extent that the
government is able -- that there is as much regulation in place as there possibly
could. 
Remembering all the individuals are human beings -- they’re all
fallible, as are the equipment and the machines that make up the part of what
the technology is, on an ongoing basis.
So, I think what we’re going to run into, at this juncture -- and I
had just a couple other things.  My ears, my sense of smell aren’t that great,
but I’ll tell you what.  On site, I couldn’t hardly hear anything.  I didn’t hear
anybody here tonight, even though we’re right in the backyard, come and
complain about things like odors or about noise.  So I’m also leaving with the
sense, again, from my research and from seeing what turned out tonight, that
those type of nuisances aren’t there.
103
I think the thing that we’re all concerned about--  And each and
every one of us here, in spite of our points of reference -- whatever they might
be -- we all want the same things.  We all want to be able to, certainly, turn our
blow dryers on and be able to put our TVs on.  But at the same time,
paramount to any of us, is the safety of ourselves and, particularly, our
children and our families.
So we’re all in this together.  And I think that we would be burying
our head in the sand if we didn’t recognize that there is a prospect of --
whether it be terrorist, whether it be scientific, whatever it is -- that there is a
percentage and a prospect of some type of accident.  And because of the
density of the population that’s grown in this area through the years--  I mean,
it’s no secret that L.B.I., in the middle of July -- it was that way 20 years ago,
let alone what it’s like now, taking in all the other population -- would be
disastrous, God forbid, that would happen.  And all of us have to really take
a look at the prospects and the percentages of that happening, as well as the
very real need to replace the efficient power that is provided through the
industry, in coming and, ultimately, making our decision, in order to make our
recommendations to the NRC.
Anyone that thinks, in my view, that we should just let the NRC
do what it’s going to do--  I don’t question their motives, I don’t question the
individuals that are there.  But I do -- in the same way that what everybody
here said was valuable, today -- we could have just said, “Your opinions don’t
matter.  The NRC is going to do it.”  Well, that’s not true, your opinions do
matter.  And, I believe, as will ours -- which will be reflective, collectively, of all
of them.  And, hopefully, sifting through things, and the balancing act that the
104
end process will make -- will be wise in what we ultimately view, in our position
as State legislators and members of the people’s house -- what we think is in
the best interest of the people of this immediate area and all 8.5 million that
live here.
So, it’s with that, we certainly need a component to involve and
include the BPU.  I’m going to ask Commissioner Fox, myself, to appear before
one of our Committees to talk about: (a) the perspective replacement of that
power, should the plant be decommissioned; and (b) to best understand the
decommissioning process.  There’s certainly an economic component that will
go there, and we need to know all of that.
Once again, Mayor, thank you.
And to all of you, thank you.  And we look forward to working
together for a better New Jersey.  (applause)
(MEETING CONCLUDED)
