 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE BUDGET AND APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE 
 
"The Committee will hear testimony from invited witnesses on issues surrounding 
 coastal planning and rebuilding in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy" 
 
LOCATION: 
Toms River Municipal Complex 
33 Washington Street 
Toms River, New Jersey 
DATE: 
10:00 a.m. 
February 11, 2013 
 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
 
Senator Paul A. Sarlo, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein 
Senator M. Teresa Ruiz 
Senator Bob Smith 
Senator Jennifer Beck 
Senator Anthony R. Bucco 
Senator Kevin J. O'Toole 
Senator Samuel D. Thompson 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Catherine Z. Brennan  
 
 
George J. LeBlanc 
 
Christopher Emigholz 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
 
Senate Majority  
 
Senate Republican 
Committee Aide  
 
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
Committee Aide 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
 
Thomas F. Kelaher 
Mayor 
Township of Toms River 
3 
 
Kenneth B. Fitzsimmons, Esq.  
Director 
Division of Law, and 
Township Attorney 
Township of Toms River 
7 
 
Lieutenant Colonel John C. Becking 
Commander 
Philadelphia District 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
19 
 
Keith D. Watson 
Project Manager 
Philadelphia District 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
26 
 
Anthony J. Broccoli, Ph.D. 
Professor 
Department of Environment Sciences 
School of Environmental and Biological Sciences 
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 
48 
 
Jon. K. Miller, Ph.D. 
Research Assistant Professor 
Stevens Institute of Technology, and 
Assistant Director 
New Jersey Coastal Protection Technical Assistance Service, and 
New Jersey Sea Grant Coastal Process Specialist 
58 
 
Stewart Farrell, Ph.D. 
Director 
Coastal Research Center 
 
The Richard Stockton College of New Jersey 
84 
 
 
 
 
          TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
APPENDIX 
Page 
Mark N. Mauriello 
Director 
Environmental Affairs and Planning 
Edgewood Properties 
101 
 
Clinton J. Andrews, Ph.D. 
Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy 
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 
112 
 
Chris Sturm 
Senior Director 
State Policy 
New Jersey Future 
115 
 
APPENDIX 
 
PowerPoint presentation 
submitted by 
Jon K. Miller, Ph.D. 
1x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Stewart Farrell, Ph.D. 
25x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Clinton J. Andrews, Ph.D. 
27x 
 
Testimony, and 
PowerPoint presentation 
submitted by 
Chris Sturm 
32x 
 
pnf: 1-123 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
SENATOR PAUL A. SARLO (Chair):  Good morning, 
everybody.  Welcome to the February 11 Senate Budget and Appropriations 
Committee meeting, being held in Toms River, New Jersey, at the 
Municipal Complex. 
 
May we have a roll call, please? 
 
MS. BRENNAN (Committee Aide):  Senator Beck.  
 
SENATOR BECK:  Here. 
 
MS. BRENNAN:  Senator Thompson. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Here. 
 
MS. BRENNAN:  Senator O’Toole. 
 
SENATOR O'TOOLE:  Here. 
 
MS. BRENNAN:  Senator Bucco. 
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  Here. 
 
MS. BRENNAN:  Senator Sarlo. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Here. 
 
MS. BRENNAN:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Here. 
 
MS. BRENNAN:  Senator Ruiz. 
 
SENATOR RUIZ:  Here. 
 
MS. BRENNAN:  Senator Smith. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Here. 
 
MS. BRENNAN:  You have eight members present. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Thank you. 
 
Let me just begin by thanking the members of the Committee 
and our staffs for all the work they’ve put in, in organizing this hearing and 
all the hearings that we’ve done outside of Trenton.  This is the second time 
 
 
 
2 
that we are here in Toms River.  Our first legislative hearing on the 
hurricane and the response to it -- our first one was here in Toms River, and 
it’s amazing the progress that we’ve made here in Toms River and in other 
coastal communities, as well as other communities around the state.  But we 
all know there’s a long way to go. 
 
I’m proud of how we’ve conducted ourselves in these hearings.  
We’ve done this on a very bipartisan basis.  We recognize that the 
Executive Branch has taken the lead on this rebuild effort, but it’s 
important that the Legislative Branch--  We play an important role, 
especially when it comes to certain aspects of funding and legislation.  So as 
a coequal branch of government we want to make sure that we are prepared 
when needed to act. 
 
I’m a little disappointed; I’m just going to mention it.  I mean, 
a few of our key cabinet members who have been great with us -- 
Commissioner of DEP, Bob Martin, and the DCA Commissioner, Richard 
Constable -- were supposed to be with us, but due to a conflict they had to 
cancel.  I understand that; I respect their decision.  I’m not sure if they were 
told to cancel or not, but, regardless, we want an opportunity to meet with 
them.  I don’t want to take away from the importance of what our role here 
is -- working and supporting the Executive Branch and the Governor on 
rebuilding New Jersey and rebuilding our coastline. 
 
So with that being said, I thank the members.   
 
I want to turn it over to them, to let them open up and share a 
few words -- our great Mayor here in Toms River, Tom Kelaher.  Mr. 
Kelaher, you may have a seat -- please have a seat. 
 
 
 
3 
M A Y O R   T H O M A S   F.   K E L A H E R:  (off mike)  I just want 
to take a couple of minutes, and I can do it from standing right here. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Whatever it is--  This is your Borough 
Hall; you can do whatever you want.  You can stand on the table. (laughter) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF AUDIENCE:  (Indiscernible) 
microphones.   This is where the mikes are. 
 
MAYOR KELAHER:  All right, all right, okay. 
 
I just really want to take this opportunity to welcome all of you 
here, and to thank you for coming and discussing the budget and to get 
firsthand information about the local problems that we have here.  As you 
all know, you don’t need me to tell you we took a tremendous hit in this 
Hurricane Sandy and we’ve got at least 10,000 homes that are impacted -- 
either on the barrier island or in the low-lying areas along here -- that are 
either flooded or knocked over or destroyed.  And nobody in those areas 
escaped any damage. 
 
As far as the budget is concerned, that’s going to be a real crisis 
for us, going forward.  We were already estimating that we’re going to see a 
loss of 20 to 25 percent of our tax ratable base without any diminution in 
our expenses.  You know, Toms River school system has 18 schools in the 
system.  We’re not going to see any reduction in our police or our public 
works efforts.  So it’s going to be a real challenge and I just ask that -- any 
help that you can give us would be greatly appreciated. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Mayor, you just raised, actually, a very 
good point that we all kind of take for granted.  If Toms River was to lose 
25 percent of your tax base, of course it impacts your municipal budget.  
But we all forget 66 percent of your tax bill is your schools, which will have 
 
 
 
4 
a major--  That loss of ratable will have a major impact on your school 
budget.  How many children-- 
 
MAYOR KELAHER:  Seventeen thousand. 
 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Seventeen thousand children in Toms 
River. 
 
MAYOR KELAHER:  Three high schools, three intermediate 
schools, and the balance of the 18 schools are elementary. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  That is--  We all take for granted--  We all 
know it’s getting back to the municipal budget, because we all deal with the 
mayors.  We don’t really, sometimes, deal with the school boards.  We deal 
with the mayors and we hear from you.  But it is going to have a major 
impact. 
 
How many folks do you believe in Toms River are still out of 
their homes, roughly? 
 
MAYOR KELAHER:  Well, it’s a hard figure, but just let me 
say this.  We were just able, a week ago today, to do what we call repopulate 
two-thirds of Ortley Beach.  And that’s because we could certify to the State 
OEM that all four utilities were in place.  There a couple thousand 
residences and homes in that area that were impacted.  And I think our 
police Chief did a survey the other day and there are only 100 people back 
in there.  Because even though we said you could repopulate and utilities 
are available, people’s homes are still trashed, their furniture was destroyed, 
their appliances were destroyed.  So even though we said, “Yes, you’re 
welcome to move back in,” that varies and depends on everybody else. 
 
The northern beaches -- you know, the main beaches that you 
would recognize, Chadwick Beach, and Normandy Beach, and Monterrey 
 
 
 
5 
Beach, and all of them -- we were able to repopulate that area about two or 
three weeks ago.  It all runs together in my head.  And there are 4,000 
homes up there, and our Chief went over that first morning and could only 
count 30 people who were back in because--  And I’ve been back and forth, 
up and down these streets and it’s just pathetic.  Everything everybody 
owned was out at the curb.  And we had to pick up all of that trash.  And 
the rebuilding and the reoccupation are going to depend on whether the 
people had insurance, whether they have any money.  I just talked to a lady 
at church about a week ago; she lived in Green Island, a low-lying area of 
our Silverton section.  The bay came right through her house -- a single, 
one-story on a slab.  The lady is in her 70s, no insurance because she 
couldn’t afford it.  Her car was totaled.  Everything she owned in the house 
wound up at the curb.  She has no money to fix the house, and she said, 
“Even if I could fix the house, I have to buy all new furniture, all new 
appliances.”  Her daughter lives out-of-state, and the daughter said, “Mom, 
come down and live with us.”  And I said, “What about your house?”  She 
said, “I’m just going to leave it there.  There is nothing else I can do about 
it.”  And I am afraid that that’s the scenario that we’re going to see 
repeated.  I don’t like to see it, but I think even the Star-Ledger had a front 
page story this morning about people just putting their homes up for sale 
and leaving.  So it’s a challenge. 
 
You know, in the beginning we used a race term like we were in 
a sprint to try to get things done.  Now I think we’re in a long-range, cross- 
country marathon.  It’s not going to go away for a while.  It’s going to take 
a while.  It’s going to be a real problem. 
 
 
 
6 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  And I will say this, and I mean this 
sincerely, to the members of the Committee.  I actually have been very 
involved with Toms River, and I actually, for full disclosure--  Because I 
have a house on the barrier island in Toms River.  And in Toms River there 
are 16 private beach associations, actually.  And what’s quite amazing is 
every one of them has their own little political structure and organization.  
And I really have to credit the Mayor, his Borough Attorney who we’re 
going to hear from shortly, his Borough engineer; his Police Chief, Michael 
Mastronardy.  Although maybe not everybody in these private beach 
associations agree with everything they’re trying to attempt, whether it’s the 
dune protection, of course, number one; and then dealing with these 
complicated flood maps and these articles in every paper, “New maps 
complicate flood victims’ plans--”  A lot of things are Federal or State 
regulations.  I really--  Mayor and your staff, you’ve done an amazing job of 
being responsive and answering the best you can.  They may not all agree 
with you, but at least you opened the doors-- 
 
MAYOR KELAHER:  That’s part of the problem -- you don’t 
know all the answers. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Well, at least you’ve opened the doors 
and allowed them to come here and begin the process of talking about it.  
So I really can’t commend yourself and all of your staff enough for what 
you’ve done to try to help.  There are a lot of answers that are still out 
there; it’s very complicated. 
 
MAYOR KELAHER:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  But one thing you have done, you’ve 
opened your doors.  You’ve allowed all of these little political structures to 
 
 
 
7 
come in and meet with you, agree to disagree.  But at least the dialogue is 
ongoing. 
 
MAYOR KELAHER:  True; we’re trying. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  So I commend you for that, Mayor. 
 
MAYOR KELAHER:  Senator, thank you; and welcome once 
again, everybody.  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  The first person we’re going to hear 
testimony from is Kenneth Fitzsimmons, Special Attorney to Toms River -- 
Borough Attorney to Toms River.  And his focus is going to be to talk about 
dunes, reconstruction of dunes; before people build their homes, what the 
Township is doing, interaction with the Army Corps of Engineers, and the 
like. 
 
Please have a seat, Mr. Fitzsimmons. 
K E N N E T H   B.   F I T Z S I M M O N S,    ESQ.:  Good morning, 
ladies and gentlemen. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  We’ll leave it up to you, sir, to say a few 
words -- what you’ve been up to and what kind of help or guidance you may 
need from us, and we’ll go from there. 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  Due to reconstruction, the Township 
owns approximately one-half of the beaches on the Atlantic Ocean.  We 
implemented emergency contracts to restore the dunes in front of the 
Township-owned property.  That contract was approximately $2 million. 
During the time we were restoring our beaches we had contact from many 
of the private associations and they asked if we would construct the dunes 
in front of their property.  If we did, we could only do so with FEMA 
reimbursement.  The FEMA reimbursement percentage is 75 percent for 
 
 
 
8 
that project.  To undertake that contract it would be about a $2.5 million 
commitment, and although FEMA indicates that it will reimburse, there is 
no promise it will reimburse.  So it’s a large undertaking. 
 
The only way we could justify expending public funds on 
private beaches was to obtain a perpetual public access easement.  It was my 
opinion as Township Attorney that that would justify our expenditure if we 
had the right to go under those beaches and create dunes according to the 
FEMA regulations.  FEMA would reimburse only for the height of the dune 
and the width of the dune that was in place prior to October 28. 
 
I prepared an easement and we put it out on our website.  It 
was a very generic easement, simply giving perpetual public access to 
maintain the dune system.  We sent that document to each of the private 
associations; I believe there are 16, and there are about 30 private property 
owners -- individuals.  That document was sent to them with a cover letter 
on two occasions -- one by regular mail, the second by certified mail -- 
because some people claimed they didn’t receive the original mailing.  We 
also published that on our website. 
 
One property owner, a condominium association, came in 
immediately and said, “We’ll sign the document.”  They did, in fact, sign it 
and returned it to us.  Many others had questions.  But there was a general 
reluctance to give up a private property right.  New Jersey is very focused on 
private property.  You know the number of municipalities we have.  We’re 
very subject to local regulations.  We met with a number of people.  Several 
attorneys I met with who represented, collectively, six homeowners 
associations wanted some changes.  We discussed the changes and we 
indicated that perhaps they would commit that to writing and give that 
 
 
 
9 
back to us.  In the interim we had contact from representatives of the 
NJDEP and they tried to persuade us, and did successfully persuade us, that 
the better approach would be to use their document which had been 
approved by the Army Corps of Engineers.  That made a lot of sense, 
because what they were saying is if you want to have a short-term fix by the 
Township, you can do so.  But in the long term we all agree it would be an 
Army Corps of Engineer project that would solve the problem.  So we 
converted to sending out the Army Corps/DEP document.  There was a lot 
of resistance to that.  That’s an 8- or 9-page document.  People wanted to 
negotiate the terms.  One of the things that we found better about using 
that document is if the NJDEP was saying “this is the document,” then we 
can say, “There are no negotiations.  This is the document you have to sign.  
It’s been approved at the State level and it’s been approved at the Federal 
level.  It just makes sense to go forward and use this document.”  But to 
date I only have one signed easement in place -- with a tremendous amount 
of dialogue. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Mr. Fitzsimmons, we’ve had some 
discussions.  I have spoken with him previously about this.  And just for the 
Committee’s sake, many of the private beach associations that we spoke 
about earlier have funded the temporary fixes.  They put their dunes back 
to their original conditions.  Many of them have CAFRA permits; they’ve 
put it back to their CAFRA permits.  That doesn’t necessarily mean that 
they are Army Corps of Engineered dunes, correct? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  That’s correct. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  But many of them have put back what 
they had originally.  They’ve paid for it privately with their own private 
 
 
 
10 
dollars.  So really the next--  If they’ve done that, they’ve put themselves 
back, or even better than they were previously.  The next big movement will 
be with the Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal dollars that are 
looming.  Toms River -- no municipality -- Brick Township, nobody can 
move forward.  The Army Corps won’t move forward, I think, until they 
have easements -- agreements with every one of these private beach 
associations and every municipality.  Are we correct in saying that? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  You’re absolutely correct. 
 
We have no objection to the associations going forward and 
doing the dune restoration themselves.  We simply agreed that we would 
spend public money and apply for reimbursement if they would cooperate 
with us.  I commend the associations that did that because if you look at 
the last storm over the weekend, the dune system did protect.  Where there 
were gaps in private properties, there was a breach.   
 
SENATOR SARLO:  And I think many of them have done it 
themselves and they’ve footed the bills themselves.  But the big question is 
the next step:  How do we widen our beaches and protect our communities 
from the next surge?  Not the nor’easter that we just got this winter, but the 
next major surge.  We’re going to hear, probably, from some experts here 
today who are going to tell us that it could happen next year, for all we 
know. 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  I don’t know that any municipality is 
capable of achieving the next step -- by getting the easements.  Mantoloking 
Borough has worked very hard.  Their mayor has personally contacted 
people.  And his degree of success, it is my understanding, is about 50 
percent.  And 50 percent won’t do it. 
 
 
 
11 
 
I envision there’s going to have to be some State legislation that 
is going to require the dunes to be built, or require at least oceanfront 
property owners to give an easement.  And I know they’ll be a 
compensation issue, but perhaps if it’s done on a public safety basis the 
compensation issue can be avoided. 
 
You’re all familiar with the Long Beach Township case.  There 
was a lawsuit down there that resulted in a $350,000 reward against the 
Township.  And Long Beach Township and Toms River and every other 
community just can’t afford to pay a tremendous amount of money to get 
an easement to protect the property that’s giving the easement.  It’s upside 
down.  It doesn’t make sense. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Senator Smith, our Chairman of our 
Environment Committee. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  A couple of questions for you.  And I 
think you alluded to it, but I just want to make sure I understand.  Are you 
suggesting, when you said State legislation, that there should be the tool in 
the toolbox to allow for condemnation of these easements, either by State 
government or local government? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  No, I think the condemnation tool is 
there now.  It’s simply not an affordable option for municipalities. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  And it’s not affordable because of 
the Karan case -- the one that you referred to, the $350,000 award? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  Correct. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  If that case is allowed to stand 
in its current form, would that pretty much end the ability of the State of 
New Jersey to build dunes in this state? 
 
 
 
12 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  I don’t know.  I would have to read 
that decision after it’s decided by the Supreme Court.  But if it comes down 
in the same fashion as the Appellate Division, yes, it probably would totally 
impede your ability to-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  Any property owner who had a 
“view” would be a fool to say, “Yes, we’re going to waive any 
compensation.”  Why not get their windfall and ask for compensation for 
the loss of their view.  And, as a result, if any of these property owners -- or 
series of property owners -- ask for compensation for the view, the cost 
would be beyond the pale. 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  Pragmatically, that’s correct. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  A related question:  You 
mentioned money, money, money in various parts of your testimony.  Do 
municipalities that have been adversely impacted by Hurricane Sandy need 
some type of cap relief for Sandy-related expenses? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  Yes.  There is no way that any 
municipality that borders the Atlantic Ocean can afford or sustain the 
damage that was inflicted without some relief. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Then lastly, in Toms River what 
has your municipality decided with regards to the planning and the zoning 
issues related to rebuilding?  But specifically, we now have these advisory 
base flood elevations from FEMA which may require homes to be built zero 
to 12 feet higher than they are now.  They have to be raised up.  If a 
homeowner in Toms River wishes to do that, and they had a two-story 
home, you have a certain building height permitted under your zoning.  
 
 
 
13 
Can they automatically rebuild, or do they have to go to the planning or 
zoning board for a bulk variance or use variance? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  As we speak, they cannot automatically 
build.  However, we are drafting an ordinance -- and we expect that to be 
offered at our February 26 meeting and implemented on March 12 -- that 
will allow the property owner to increase over the 35-foot height limitation 
for the old regulation versus the new advisory regulations.  So if the 
differential is 4 feet, then they can go 35 feet plus 4. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Will they be required to go to a planning 
or zoning board even though that’s now-- 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  That would avoid the planning or 
zoning board appearance. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It would be an automatic. 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  We also have a policy saying that you 
can rebuild what you had before -- one story, two story, three story -- 
exactly in place, even though you might have encroachments into the 
required side yard setback or front yard setback area.  We’re not requiring 
the homeowner to return for a variance to do that. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Or lot coverage? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  Or lot coverage, as long as you’re not 
increasing the size of the home. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  Now it seems to me that Toms 
River is doing all it can to assist homeowners in getting the rebuild 
underway.  Should the State of New Jersey consider having uniform 
legislation so that every town is as progressive as you are?  In other words, 
saying that any rebuild that meets FEMA is an automatic?  If there’s a lot 
 
 
 
14 
or a bulk variance, it’s an automatic?  And you don’t have to go to a 
planning or zoning board to get the approval.  You think that would be 
helpful? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  I think there’s always a benefit to 
uniformity like that.  We can do it on our own; I know Manasquan recently 
enacted an ordinance to do essentially that.  A lot of the communities are 
addressing it.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Great.  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Senator Smith, you raise a good question.  
It’s more about money than view.  It’s more about money than view these 
days.  Maybe for some of the private establishments along the beachfronts, 
I think it’s about view.  But from the money perspective, these private 
beach associations -- I believe their concern would be they have to maintain, 
secure them, provide lifeguard services, provide liability insurance on a 
seasonal basis.  If they sign the easement then it generates who can come 
on, who cannot come on, the public access, and who’s paying for it.  I think 
that sort--  Is that sort of the big issue?  It’s not so much the view, it’s about 
they’re privately paying this out of their own pocket and if they sign the 
easement--  They’re not in the business of -- as much as they maybe would 
like to be -- they’re paying out of their pocket for the maintenance, security, 
safety, insurance, and the like.  But once they sign the long-term easement 
with the Army Corps of Engineers--  Forget the temporary fix for a minute; 
a lot of that’s happening.  But the long-term Army Corps of Engineers 
easement, what does that do to charging access and the like? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  That is a concern that is often voiced.  
But our response to that is we are not trying to interfere with your 
 
 
 
15 
collection of beach badge fees, so that you can maintain all those services 
that you just mentioned to have a safe and healthy beach.   
 
SENATOR SARLO:  But legally it’s not--- 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  Legally they would have to make 
available beach badges at a competitive rate to the public.  They can’t have 
it both ways.  As a practical matter, at least in Toms River, access to the 
beach is really regulated by parking.  And all of the communities on the 
barrier island have little or no public parking facilities.  So then we don’t 
envision a substantial increase in people coming to the beach because now 
you have “public access.”  In fact, virtually all of those associations sell 
badges to the public.  They did last year and they’ll continue this year.  And 
that’s a regulation; that’s a condition of a CAFRA permit -- to make those 
badges available. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Yes. 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  To make those badges available.  And 
that’s a good thing for CAFRA to insist on. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Any private beach association that has a 
CAFRA permit in place must make available a daily badge which is equal to 
-- some of them are expensive because people shell out a lot of money -- but 
must be equal to what the homeowner pays for the services for that private 
beach.  So anybody that has a CAFRA permit is way ahead of the curve. 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  Correct. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Senator Beck, then Senator Thompson.  
I’m sorry, you don’t have anything? 
 
SENATOR BECK:  No. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Okay, I thought you did.  I’m sorry. 
 
 
 
16 
 
Senator Thompson, from Middlesex. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  The requirement for access -- I 
believe that’s a Federal requirement.  Is there also a State requirement -- 
both of them have it in order to expend public funds? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  It’s a Federal requirement to have the 
Army Corps participate in the project, Senator.  When the CAFRA permits 
are issued, DEP wants public access.  We also need public access because I 
cannot give my Township an opinion that it’s proper to spend public funds 
on a privately owned piece of property unless there’s some public interest in 
that property.  And the perpetual easement would create that interest that, 
in my opinion, would allow the expenditure of funds to assist these groups 
in replacing the dunes. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Well, you see, the thing about it is 
when you say a public interest in that property, when we talk about the 
dunes we’re not necessarily just talking about that property.  That property 
might be right on the beach, but we’re also concerned about the property 
behind that one and so on, because the flooding goes on back.  We’re trying 
to--  Thus people who live on the streets behind that are complaining 
because the people in front of them won’t give permission, so we get 
flooded and we get wiped out, and etc.  So if you’re building the dunes, 
you’re not just protecting that property but you’re protecting all the 
properties behind it.  And that’s a public interest. 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  You’re protecting the entire barrier 
island. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  So there’s a public interest there.  
You’re not just protecting one -- doing something for that homeowner, 
 
 
 
17 
you’re doing something for all the homes behind it, which is a public 
interest.  So I could see using that as a justification for saying, yes, the 
public interest is served even though we’re taking care of that person.  I 
agree with the Chair that I think that the primary objection today is more 
so related to the public access portion than the obstruction of view -- after 
what’s happened here.  I think we ought to take a look to see if there is 
something we can do in modifying that section to prevent more utilization 
of public funds in some of these instances.  I mean, we talk about 
associations; it’s one thing if you’ve got a commercial thing that has a beach 
out there, but if somebody has a private home there, you’re talking about 
their yard.  And I don’t know how many people would like people just 
wandering willy nilly through their yard and I can see why they object to it.  
But I think that’s something we should look at and make some modification 
on those rulings. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  I was just talking to our staff here, and 
one of the issues, if the Legislature and the Governor were to act on 
legislation requiring municipalities and beach associations to sign in order 
for the Army Corps of Engineers to act -- there are constitutional issues 
associated with that, because it is the taking of one’s land.  And they need 
to be compensated accordingly.  Even though it’s a temporary easement, 
there are some constitutional issues associated with that.  Am I correct in 
that? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  You are correct.  There is a case 
pending before our Supreme Court and the 3rd District Federal Court.  
We’re hoping after Sandy some of those philosophies may shift, but there’s 
no guarantee. 
 
 
 
18 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Now, of course when we talk about 
this taking, I think we do have the ability to take for the public good 
already.  But based upon the amount of money they set for that one 
property that’s in the courts right now, if we have to pay for all that -- my 
God, what the cost would be -- just out of sight. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Last question:  From Toms Rivers’ 
perspective, what do you think is more of a pressing issue?  It appears--  Are 
the flood elevation maps more pressing than the getting easements on these 
dunes with the Army Corps?  What do you think is more pressing, or are 
they about equal right now as you focus on the rebuilding? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  I think your statement that they’re 
about equal is correct. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Well, Mr. Fitzsimmons, thank you.  
Thank you for the work that you do.  Oh, I’m sorry, Senator Greenstein.  I 
apologize. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Hi.  I just wanted to ask this.  
You’ve somewhat answered it, but in terms of your understanding of the 
FEMA rules, what would it take for them to work with you on the dunes?  
What are they looking for to reimburse? 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  They are simply looking for us to give 
proof that we have reconstructed the dune; it’s in the same place, the same 
height, and the width.  And then they’ll go for the 75 percent 
reimbursement.  They actually have not been very difficult to work with on 
that issue. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Okay.  I just wanted to make sure 
that was not the barrier, in a sense. 
 
 
 
19 
 
Okay, thank you. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Mr. Fitzsimmons, as you go through this 
process working with the Township officials here, if there is anything you 
think, legislatively, that needs to be done that we should be working with 
the Administration on, please feel free to reach out to me or any member of 
this Committee.  As you go through this process, if there’s something that’s 
glaring that could be changed and it could be done legislatively -- please, 
please let us know. 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  We will take advantage of that offer, 
sir. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Thank you, sir. 
 
MR. FITZSIMMONS:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Lieutenant Colonel John Becking and 
Keith Watson, United States Army Corps of Engineers.  You are the fine 
gentlemen with this big document that everybody’s-- 
 
Good morning.  Thank you for responding. 
L I E U T E N A N T   C O L O N E L   J O H N   C.   B E C K I N G:  
No worries. 
 
If I could start with an opening statement, then I’ll be happy to 
answer your questions as best I’m able.  But I do want to thank you, ladies 
and gentlemen, for giving us a chance to come here and speak to you about 
what the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has done through response and 
recovery efforts for Hurricane Sandy. 
 
We’re currently positioned to continue helping the State of 
New Jersey and the region maintain the extraordinary and heroic efforts to 
recover from that terrible storm. 
 
 
 
20 
 
The response to the storm was truly a joint effort from the 
start, as you know.  Our President, your Governor, my Commander -- 
leadership at the highest levels set an example of cooperation, decisiveness, 
and urgency that inspired us all, down to those operating the bulldozers, 
pumps, and generators -- the boots on the ground, as we call it in the 
military. 
 
The Army Corps of Philadelphia District responded in many 
ways to the storm -- some of them even before the storm had passed, really  
-- such as mobilizing hundreds of generators in the earliest hours.  All told, 
the Philadelphia District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers executed 27 
task orders from the Federal Emergency Management Administration -- 
FEMA -- for a total of $63 million.    
 
Two further examples that illustrate how cooperation and hard 
work paid off are the breach of Mantoloking and the flooding at the Passaic 
Valley Sewage Commission’s treatment plant in Newark.  Looking at 
Mantoloking, it was really, literally, cut in half by the storm surge.  
Summoned to the scene by FEMA, engineers from the Philadelphia District 
assessed the damage, developed a plan to fill the breach, and had a 
contractor onsite and working three days later.  Through the efforts and 
cooperation of the New Jersey Department of Transportation the job was 
made a great deal easier.  When the Army Corps of Engineers arrived, your 
heavy machine operators from New Jersey were already onsite pushing sand 
into the breach, cutting the inlet off at the ocean side so that we could fill 
the beach behind it and build a new beach on top of their work. 
 
Failure was not an option at the sewage treatment plant in 
Newark.  Sandy pushed a wall of water up Newark Bay and inundated that 
 
 
 
21 
very sprawling plant in over 4 feet of water.  So when you add it up that’s 
152 acres that were completely underwater.  But more significantly, the 
tunnels beneath the plant -- and some of those could be even as long as a 
mile -- that hold the pumps, and the pipes, and electrical equipment that 
support the operation above ground that you see were flooded as well. 
 
The plant had to be dewatered, the pumps dried, and the 
centrifuge systems repaired.  Again, the mission was accomplished through 
collaboration and cooperation at every level of government: the Army Corps 
of Engineers, the State Department of Environmental Protection, and 
actually the PVSC itself. 
 
Looking ahead we anticipate more of that kind of cooperation 
as we tackle more and more permanent solutions to some of the problems 
New Jersey now faces.  Coastal protection is very high on that list.  We’ve 
heard positive feedback from countless owners, business owners, and elected 
officials throughout New Jersey.  Without the previously constructed 
projects the damages would have been much worse in many communities. 
 
Our formal partnership with the State of New Jersey, and 
specifically the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, dates 
back to the late 1980s and makes these projects possible.  We started with 
Cape May and Ocean City, but the program has evolved and grown over 
the years.  The Army Corps of Engineers has built dune and berm systems 
that are approximately 50 of the 98 miles of developed coastline in New 
Jersey.  These projects not only provide a level of risk reduction but 
enhanced natural coastal eco systems such as our project in Lower Cape 
May Meadows.   
 
 
 
22 
 
Additional stretches of the coastline have congressionally 
authorized projects but have not yet been built.  These coastal storm 
damage protection projects also help to mitigate damage to homes, 
businesses, infrastructures, and various utilities.  These projects are designed 
to be effective during storms of varying intensities and durations, but 
during a massive storm like Sandy the difference between areas with the 
project and without a project is very apparent.   
 
Soon after the storm passed and conditions allowed a safe 
access, teams were dispatched to survey all our projects and assess the sand 
loss.  From there we began working through the process to be able to repair 
the projects and bring them back to their pre-storm conditions.  The 
recently enacted Supplemental Appropriations Act also included funds for 
projects to be restored back to their authorized design profiles.  This is all 
done under our Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies Program -- you 
might have heard that called FCCE.  We compile reports on each project, 
and quantify the daily damages and sand losses. 
 
Our teams worked quickly to complete the reports and our 
higher headquarters approved six of them in New Jersey.  Those are Long 
Beach Island, Brigantine Island, Absecon Island, Ocean City, Seven Mile 
Island, and Cape May.   We’re already dredging and pumping sand at Seven 
Mile Island and Brigantine, and we’ll soon begin in Ocean City.  We have 
also begun engineering design efforts for the other projects.  Once designs 
are complete the contracting process will begin. 
 
While this program enables us to restore existing projects, there 
is work to be done along other stretches of the coastline without a 
constricted dune and berm.  This will take a cooperative effort between 
 
 
 
23 
Federal, State, and local governments and community residents.  Our 
efforts will be to prioritize repairs to existing projects on the beaches of New 
Jersey.  We recognize stretches of the coastline are vulnerable given the 
extent of the erosion to many of our projects.  Moving forward, we will 
continue to work closely with our partner, the New Jersey DEP, to repair, 
renourish, and build projects to help protect the communities and the 
shore. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Where does the Army Corps of Engineers 
stand today with plans from the Point Pleasant area down to the Barnegat 
Inlet, along the northern barrier island?  Where does the Army Corps of 
Engineers stand with the actual engineering plans?  Are they prepared, are 
they ready to go?  Just kind of give us a snapshot of what is the status. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Most of the area that you’re describing 
now is what we would call in the--  It’s been authorized by Congress but the 
project has not yet been constructed.  And so some of that engineering work 
has been done and some of that still remains to be completed before the 
project can go to construction.  So there isn’t what we would call an active 
project, in that it has been authorized by Congress, but, again, to date no 
actual pumping of sand or putting sand on the beach has occurred -- if that 
answers your question. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  And of course it would need to be 
facilitated by the signing of easements as well, correct? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  There are, throughout New Jersey, 
various places where real estate easements are an issue before construction 
of authorized projects could proceed. 
 
 
 
24 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  How long would it take for that stretch  of 
the northern barrier island, if everything was to fall into place -- the design 
is done, easements are signed -- how long would it actually take for the 
Army Corps of Engineers to facilitate that construction? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  That’s a harder question to answer 
than you would expect. 
 
It would take a while.  We will not be able to begin 
construction until after we receive the funds from Congress.  And that 
won’t be, at the very least, until after May 1.  We would then have to 
proceed and do some engineering work; and then assuming that real estate 
issues were not an issue, and that the agreement that we have to have in 
place with our partner -- in this case, New Jersey DEP -- is already in place, 
then we would be able to proceed, as I said, to the contracting process.  
There could be potentially some issues with the capacity of the industry, 
and so that may have impacts; because obviously this storm has affected 
most of the Northeast and so there would be a lot of communities asking 
the exact same question you just did.   And so that would play into it, too.   
 
So I think the answer to your question is a complex one to 
answer and all those factors have to weigh in. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  But essentially, the Army Corps of 
Engineers’ position is, “We’ll fund this; we’ll design it; we’ll come in and 
build it.  We’ll pump the sand, widen the beaches, construct these dunes, 
engineer dunes,” but you are not just about height, but volume, correct?  
“We’ll do all this, but you need to get all your legal -- all your real estate 
easements and all your agreements in place, otherwise we don’t have the 
mission to come in and start this work.”  Am I correct in that? 
 
 
 
25 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Yes, I would say we do have the 
mission.  Congress has authorized that project to proceed.  However, there 
are things that must be in place before that construction could begin -- 
some of which you just pointed out there.  So -- yes. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Realistically, that could take two to three 
years before all of these--  It could even be longer by the time all of these 
easements, issues, and access issues, and all the agreements are worked out 
between all the parties.  I mean, have you seen that in other parts of the--  
Has the Army Corps of Engineers seen that in other parts of the country? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  There have been--  Yes, there are 
problems, and we have to be concerned about peoples’ property rights and 
obtaining real estate easements in a lot of our coastal projects -- yes. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Okay.  So you actually--  So some of these 
municipalities, whether it’s Toms River--  What they tried to do -- through 
the public funding, through FEMA reimbursement -- or what some of these 
private beach associations we heard--  Sort of a smart move as an interim 
measure, not sitting around waiting for the Army Corps of Engineers.  It 
was actually to protect them from these storms that were kind of getting -- 
these nor’easters that we were getting that we just had this weekend.  It was 
a smart move on their part, am I correct?  Is that a correct assumption -- to 
protect themselves temporarily? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  We realize that a lot of the 
communities are vulnerable.  We just--  Immediately after the storm we 
worked with FEMA to provide some sand to various communities 
throughout the New Jersey area -- to provide some of that immediate 
 
 
 
26 
protection.  And we realize that some communities are going to have to take 
action while they wait for other things to work out. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  What’s the status of the dunes on the 
southern portion -- the southern barrier island, down by Long Beach Island?  
What is the status there?  Is the Army Corps of Engineers work still 
ongoing?  Are there still access issues?   
 
COLONEL BECKING:  We have projects down there as well.   
 
Keith can answer that one a little more-- 
K E I T H   D.   W A T S O N:  That project has been in construction.  
We’ve constructed Harvey Cedars, the Surf City area, and in Long Beach 
Township what is known as Brant Beach.  All those areas have obtained all 
their easements.  And when we were appropriated, the funds were enough 
to complete the areas that -- the easements were already obtained.  There 
are still issues outstanding.  The one case from Harvey Cedars where the 
town--  I want everyone to know that the Corps doesn’t get the easements -- 
that’s the responsibility of the non-Federal sponsor.  In this case, that’s the 
New Jersey Department of Environment Protection who, in turn, goes to 
the township or borough or municipality that the project will end up in.  
They are actually getting the easements.  So the case that was spoken about 
earlier -- the Karan case -- was actually Harvey Cedars -- the Borough of 
Harvey Cedars is the entity that’s doing the litigation and taking it to the 
Supreme Court. 
 
But the easements are needed before we can move further.  
There are areas of Long Beach Township that the mayors have obtained a 
majority of the easements that we’ll be able to work in. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Senator Smith. 
 
 
 
27 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What is the unappropriated cost for 
completing your plan for the New Jersey shore? I understand that you have 
appropriations for some of the towns on LBI or on the coast that you just 
described.  But if you could build what you proposed for the Jersey Shore, 
what is the cost? 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Are you talking the northern barrier 
island? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’m talking about the Jersey Coast -- the 
whole thing.  What is the whole banana here? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Sir, if you are considering those 
projects which Congress has authorized but which previously had not been 
appropriated -- if that’s what I think you’re asking, Senator -- our math 
comes up to about $280 million -- and that’s in 2012 dollars.  And that’s 
based off of the amounts that Congress authorized at the time of the 
authorization, which may have been a little bit older; we’ve adjusted those 
up to 2012 dollars. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  Again, so I’m clear on the costs:  
Congress authorized these new projects before Sandy, correct? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Is your plan for the Jersey Shore-- 
If you could build what you think is necessary to make it safe for property 
owners and individuals -- what’s in effect -- what would be the difference in 
cost?  Because I imagine those plans are going to change after Sandy. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  The amount that Congress authorized 
is that number that I just gave you -- the $280 million.  So that’s the 
amount they authorized.   We’re still going through and putting together 
 
 
 
28 
the adjustments to those numbers based on any damages that may have 
occurred as a result of Sandy. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Correct.  Those are only the projects that 
you knew about pre-Sandy.  Would the Army Corps be recommending an 
expansion of the projects on the Jersey Shore to protect both life and 
property?  Is that in the works? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  I understand your question now.  The 
law that the President has now signed into being is that we have received 
funding to conduct a study to look at those kinds of things that you’re 
asking -- what other kinds of things need to be done to address flooding and 
coastal protection. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  So we’re not going to know that 
answer for a while until you get your studies done. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  That study would last probably about 
two years, is what the legislation says. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Colonel, were you involved in 
Katrina? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Me personally?  No.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Was your colleague? 
 
MR. WATSON:  No, sir. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  Hopefully you talked to other 
members of the Army Corps just to try and help us.  Within the Army 
Corps, when you look back on the Katrina experience, what was the best 
thing that was done for the future to prevent problems?  And what was 
probably the least smart thing that was done as a result of Katrina?  We 
would like to learn from their mistakes and their successes -- if you know. 
 
 
 
29 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Yes, I feel pretty out of place to answer 
your question. I can say that it was like the situation that we have here with 
Sandy.  There was -- a lot of what was already planned for, in particular the 
City of New Orleans, was already an authorized project with the U.S. Army 
Corps of Engineers.  And the Administration was able to come forward and, 
working with Congress, find solutions to fund those and execute those 
projects.  And I think one highlight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is 
how quickly they actually went to work and actually got those projects into 
construction and executed them.  Some of that construction is still ongoing.  
I was just there in October and viewed some of it, and there is still 
construction ongoing there, believe it or not, in response to Katrina in the 
New Orleans area.  
 
But in the broader sense I think that’s, from my viewpoint, the 
best I could do to answer your question. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  There are two models that are out 
there on the public table with regard to the acquisition of lands.  I’m not 
sure one--  One is the Cuomo plan and one is the Christie plan.  And I 
don’t know how closely you read your New York Times, but as I understand 
the Cuomo plan, the plan is to put aside a pot of money for the acquisition 
of shore flood-prone property.  That the Cuomo plan would say buy 
individual homes if you can or buy whole blocks if you can.  And for 
property that’s really hazardous flooding areas, even if they weren’t hurt by 
Sandy, to consider purchasing them.  And there are incentives.  If you’re in 
a really hazardous area there’s a 10 percent above the market price; if you 
can get a whole block together there’s a 5 percent incentive to do that.  As I 
understand what Governor Christie has proposed, he’s saying he wants to 
 
 
 
30 
buy out zones; in other words, if you can get a block of properties where all 
the property owners agree, let’s buy if it’s in harm’s way.   
 
From the Army Corps’ perspective, is either of those proposals 
better or worse in terms of future protection of life and property? 
 
And by the way, I’m not asking you to criticize; both Governors 
are trying to deal with a tough issue.  But in terms of the science of it, in 
terms of what’s best for protection of property, what’s the best way to go? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  I can appreciate that there’s -- and I 
think everyone in my organization appreciates that there’s a lot of very 
difficult question revolving around real estate.  And you, ladies and 
gentlemen, just heard some of that discussed.  And so, regardless, I don’t 
think I can offer any advice or a viewpoint on either one of those 
Governors’ plans. 
 
What I can say is that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
previously has worked, and we have examples, on the New Jersey coast 
where we have not had real estate easements signed in some areas; and so 
those were portions of projects that we had to forgo building, but we 
continued with building the remainder of the project in areas where we did 
have real estate easements. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Is that effective? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  It’s not as effective as having the entire 
project complete.  You can imagine, if you’re built at the end of a wall the 
water can go around the end of a wall, if you want to think of it in very 
simple terms.  And so if you’re the last person at the end of that wall that 
might be a little difficult for you.  But it does present opportunities to 
provide protection to other people that do have the real estate easements in 
 
 
 
31 
place.  I think we have examples of where on the New Jersey coast we’ve 
worked with communities and tried to make that -- build as much of the 
projects as we can based on what real estate is available and other things 
that come into the project. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  I want to turn it over to Senator 
Greenstein, but quite frankly, I mean, just hearing what you’re saying and 
the timeline, Congress has appropriated this money, there’s been a mandate 
from the Congress and the President, both Governors have done a great job 
of seeking the money.  But let’s not kid ourselves.  The people who are 
living in Seaside Heights, Lavallette, Toms River, Brick Township -- all the 
way up and down the coast -- and borough officials--  Nobody should think 
this Army Corps of Engineers permit -- this widening and dune 
reconstruction -- is going to happen overnight.  It’s going to take years, 
quite frankly, by the time all the legal wrangling is completed.  And whether 
or not the Legislature and the Governor have the political will to do so-- 
Let’s not kid ourselves, this is not--  The Township officials and residents, 
we are not going to see Army Corps of Engineers dunes.  It’s no fault of the 
Army Corps of Engineers.  You have Federal monies and a Federal mandate.  
It’s going to take some strong political will and it’s going to take some time 
to have this accomplished, and it’s going to take a couple of years, quite 
frankly.  That’s the way I see it. 
 
Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you, thank you very much. 
 
I have a couple of questions.  The concept of the 100-year 
storm that we’ve always heard.  When people talk about it -- lay people -- 
they say, “Well, I’m sure that’s being reevaluated.”  Now, I believe that 
 
 
 
32 
concept comes from the Army Corps.  Is it being looked at again in light of 
Katrina and Sandy and all the other storms?  Is it being reevaluated so that 
we can plan better for future storms? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  In short, yes.  The 100-year storm is not 
our term. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Oh, it isn’t?  I thought it was. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  It’s a convenient term to talk about, 
but that’s not the term that we would choose.   
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Where does it come from, do you 
know? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  I don’t know.  I couldn’t tell you.  
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Oh. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  But it’s got quite good legs, though, 
doesn’t it?  It keeps going. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I always thought it was the Corps. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Sorry, sorry to disappoint you. 
(laughter) 
 
But regardless, yes, I understand your question.  And we are 
considering that.  We have--  For years now have had within our models 
and our thinking the fact that we will have sea level rise, and we’ve been 
taking that into consideration.  What we are doing now is going back and 
reexamining whether that level of sea level rise -- the rate of that sea level 
rise is accurate.  And that is, yes, something that we’re looking at now. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
And then, another question:  This is very specific, and I don’t 
know if either of you are familiar with it.  Sort of a friend of a friend who 
 
 
 
33 
owns property in south Ocean City contacted me.  And it seems that -- and 
I’m just trying to use this as a case study to understand your process -- the 
impression I get is that they’ve been doing a lot of work in north Ocean 
City; that there are contracts in place and appropriations, and the Corps is 
involved.  And south Ocean City was trying to figure out how they could 
get involved.  Their local officials are supposedly supportive of it; I’ve talked 
to DEP.  Say that there is a section of a town that’s not getting the dunes, 
but other parts of the town are.  How could this other section of town 
become part of the process?  Is it too late at the moment for an 
appropriation, or is there a way they can get into the process? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Ma’am, if I’m thinking of the right 
area that you’re describing, that is part of a project that’s already 
authorized.  It just hasn’t necessarily been appropriated. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Really?  That’s interesting.  
Because they don’t know that.  They weren’t aware of that.  Maybe I can 
talk to you further, because it is a very specific issue and I’ve been trying to 
get information on it and I haven’t been able to.  So if it’s authorized, that 
would be good news.   
 
Say it’s authorized, what would be the next step to--  Is there 
anything the town can do to push for an appropriation?  Can anyone do 
anything to make that happen? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  I would say not at that level.  I think 
this supplemental bill that has been passed and signed by the President 
should ideally address the appropriation.  Once we submit our report on 
March 1 and May 1 to Congress, and we get their feedback and they release 
 
 
 
34 
the funds to us, then we would be certain about the appropriation for those 
projects. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Okay. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  In general terms, for the coast of New 
Jersey, we have only one small portion down in the southern part of New 
Jersey by Hereford Inlet -- by the Wildwoods, you would call it -- that is still 
under study.  The rest of it is all either projects that we have already begun 
construction on, or projects that are already authorized by Congress-- 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Okay. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  --and are just awaiting appropriations.  
So there is only one small portion that does not yet have an authorized 
project for the State of New Jersey. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And that’s in the south, you were 
saying? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Yes, in what you would call the 
Wildwoods -- Hereford Inlet is the name we’ve given the project portion of 
it. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Okay, thank you. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  But in order for these projects to be 
successful, you have to do--  You can’t do it piecemeal in order for these 
projects to be successful, and for the Army Corps they need to be done in 
larger sections. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  As I said, yes, sir, we’ve done sections 
of projects.  And so I guess you’re getting into how small is a small section 
versus a large section. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Yes, exactly. 
 
 
 
35 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  And you could debate that for quite-- 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  You could debate that for a long time. 
 
Senator Beck, followed by Senator Bucco, then Senator 
Thompson -- you have a question? 
 
SENATOR BECK:  Thank you for your time this morning.  It’s 
very helpful for us to hear from you. 
 
I represent Monmouth County -- a good portion of it.  And two 
quick questions; the first is about Ocean Grove -- the Ocean Grove Camp 
Meeting Association, who you may be familiar with.  I know the Army 
Corps has worked with them on beach replenishment projects in the past -- 
actually owns the boardwalk, the beach, and 2,000 feet into the water.  But 
they are very interested in starting the beach replenishment and dune 
rebuilding process because, frankly, the work they had done with you in the 
past preserved the residences along that Ocean Avenue Drive.  So they’re 
anxious to rebuild.  Last week FEMA announced that at this moment they 
are not going to fund the reconstruction of the boardwalk.  And obviously 
we’re appealing that.  But I am wondering whether or not you can begin 
working with the Ocean Grove folks on the dune issue and the beach 
replenishment issue while we’re still sorting out the boardwalk piece.  
Because I think the residents there truly believe that they were spared 
because of the excellent work that they had done with you in the past.  And 
they are anxious to go back and rebuild whatever needs to be rebuilt.  But I 
was not clear if the boardwalk reconstruction has to be tied in with the 
work that you would do, in terms of dunes and beach replenishment. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Ma’am, in full disclosure, that area is 
technically outside of my District for the Philadelphia District.  But 
 
 
 
36 
regardless, I am slightly familiar with that area; I’ve spent a lot of time since 
Hurricane Sandy up in that part of the state.  So I’m not as familiar with 
that area.  However, in general terms, the boardwalks, for example, are not 
something that we as much concern ourselves with.  It is not something that 
we--  We obviously cannot provide construction support and funding for 
that.  But I’m willing to bet that the New York District of the U.S. Army 
Corps of Engineers, who is responsible for that area up there, would be 
happy to have the discussions with local people there about how their 
projects could proceed and any interactions that there might be between 
things like a boardwalk and the coastal protection system, and be able to 
enter into conversations about how those projects might proceed. 
 
SENATOR BECK:  Maybe before you leave, if I could get some 
contact information from you to pass on to the folks at the Ocean Grove 
Camp Meeting Association.  That would be really helpful. 
 
And the other question I have, which is also--  Since I know 
Monmouth County is out of your region this is somewhat theoretical, but 
we had a little different situation in Manasquan where Manasquan did take 
care of their own dunes.  But the way they were constructed they were very 
high, with paths between them.  And, as a result, the sand, when the water 
came in -- when the ocean came in and the surge came, took the tops off the 
dunes and rammed them into the households that were along the ocean 
area.  And so some have said that the engineering, because it didn’t 
necessarily go through the Army Corps, was not in keeping with some of the 
other -- with some of your standards.  And so in situations like that, do you 
sort of take the approach that you’ll do extra outreach to kind of bring 
these folks in and maybe give them guidance as to what works and what 
 
 
 
37 
doesn’t?  I’d be surprised if they haven’t reached out to you on their own 
already.  But this was just sort of an interesting example where I think the 
community really believed that they had protected themselves, but maybe 
because the construction of the actual dune wasn’t engineered maybe with 
certain standards it didn’t actually work the way that they had hoped. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Ma’am, yes.  We are pretty particular 
about how we engineer the beaches.  I’m not a coastal engineer myself, and 
so I was really surprised to learn all the engineering that does go into it.  I 
mean, you would think -- as a normal lay person you would think, “Oh, I’m 
just piling up sand.”  And nothing could be further from the truth.  It truly 
is an engineered structured, and each element of it has a design purpose to 
really achieve the kind of protection that communities are hoping to see. 
 
That being said, various communities throughout New Jersey 
have taken measures in the absence of a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
project with varying degrees of success.  Some have been quite good; others 
not as good.  So we have, on occasion, provided advice to folks on, “If I was 
going to do this, this is how I might do that.”  And we’re happy to have the 
conversations with folks. 
 
I’ll turn it over to Keith, because if someone was getting phone 
calls in the middle of the night about how do I protect my dune, it actually 
would have been this gentleman right here.  And I don’t know if he has 
been contacted by Manasquan.   
 
MR. WATKINS:  I haven’t been contacted directly by 
Manasquan, but many of the communities in our District, from the 
Manasquan Inlet south; we control the actual inlet and south around Cape 
May and up the Delaware Bay.  The size and engineering of dunes goes into 
 
 
 
38 
the economics.  So it’s sort of a level of protection question:  What’s the 
level of protection you want to build?  Our projects look at a 50-year, and it 
gets very complicated, as the Commander said.  So the project we had for 
the Manasquan reach, for instance:  We look at a suite of storms over 50 
years -- what could possibly occur, the largest storms ever -- and then we 
run that over that period of time and see what could occur, what damages 
occur.  Our projects don’t protect to a level, per se.  They actually reduce 
damages over that period of 50 years, which is our economic analysis 
period.  After every 50 years we have to reanalyze this to see if it’s doing as 
predicted.  So we’re actually putting a project out there, and the size of it is 
predicated on the damages we prevent that would have otherwise happened 
over that 50-year period.  And it’s a risk and uncertainty type of analysis 
that goes into that. 
 
SENATOR BECK:  I’m not going to use my microphone 
because it’s incredibly annoying. (laughter) 
` 
I just have one final question, which is:  When you look at 
Monmouth County and Sandy Hook, and then the area to the north of that 
-- which is the Borough of Highlands, Port Monmouth, Belford, Keyport, 
Keansburg, Union Beach -- many, many of those municipalities have a good 
portion, in some cases all of their town, in a flood zone.  I mean, in 
Highlands, nine blocks back is still either an A or a V zone.  And so I think 
the mayors are trying to figure out how will they elevate an entire business 
community.  Or Sea Bright.  Or how will they get every resident, when 
you’re talking about 1,250 homes in a nine-block area, to elevate?  I mean, 
one mayor even suggested just raising the whole town, which I’m not sure 
how you would do that from an engineering perspective.  But I think there’s 
 
 
 
39 
a real sense that we’ve built out this municipality in a place that’s really 
prone to flooding, and I’m not sure even with the additional Federal dollars 
if we can raise an entire town.   
 
And so how is the Army Corps approaching this, particularly 
when you look at Union Beach, which has 1,700 homes that took water all 
the way to Highway 36.  How will you, from an engineering perspective, 
protect that municipality?  Or are you in conversations with them about 
different structures that they can put in place, beyond just elevating 
residences, that can help them out? 
 
 COLONEL BECKING:   Yes, it’s a very difficult challenge.  
And it is one that in this legislation we’ve received an appropriation to do a 
study that should look at the kinds of questions that you’re raising. 
 
I can’t tell you right now; I’m not familiar enough with the 
situation to tell you exactly how you would address that.  But yes, there are 
probably many different solutions that would have varying degrees of 
success.  But either way it’s a real challenge. 
 
Now, the thing I would say, just in reference though, ma’am, is 
even in those areas where we have built a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
dune system in a coastal area, it is only a risk reduction measure.  It’s not a 
magic bullet that will protect everyone from flooding in their homes.  And 
really, the dune systems that we construct are primarily -- their first purpose 
is to prevent damage from a surge -- from waves crashing in on something 
like that. 
 
There is, very oftentimes, an added benefit of reducing the risk 
from flooding which -- as you were just describing.  But the primary purpose 
is to reduce the risk of the waves crashing into your home and completely 
 
 
 
40 
destroying your home.  But there is a residual risk of flooding that can still 
occur for lots of different reasons. 
 
So even with the coastal system that we’ve constructed 
elsewhere, there is still some of that flooding risk out there that 
communities such as you described can still face, even with some of the 
systems that we’ve built elsewhere. 
 
SENATOR BECK:  Okay.  Thank you for your time. 
 
MR. WATKINS:  May I add one thing to that? 
 
SENATOR BECK:  Sure. 
 
MR. WATKINS:  So our projects are mainly on the coast right 
now -- the dunes -- but they also reduce the risk of flooding and super 
elevated flooding from breaches and washovers that occur from the 
oceanfront.  The primary beneficiaries who get a special benefit on that are 
the oceanfront homeowners.  They will be the first ones, and they are much 
more likely to lose use of their home, and have their homes condemned and 
wiped out than the rest of the community.  However, that dune does 
provide a residual protection to the back bays.  So when you say the super 
elevated waters that came back through Mantoloking, we can track that 
back to when the breach occurred -- looking into all the tidal gauges there.  
So the town does get the risk of residual flooding reduced, because you’re 
not having the ocean waves and the ocean surge come right over.  But the 
primary--  The most risk are the oceanfront homeowners.  And they are 
garnering a special benefit from our projects that, I believe, was illustrated 
when you look at areas like Long Beach Island where you had a project with 
a large Federal dune right next door to a community that didn’t.  Most of 
the oceanfront homeowners are gone; their homes are condemned or 
 
 
 
41 
unlivable -- many of them.  Whereas the areas that had the dunes still had 
some back bay flooding.  Some people still got flooded but the oceanfront 
and the beach block were all intact.  So that’s a big benefit. 
 
SENATOR BECK:  I understand that the Army Corps 
undertook an analysis of the entire Jersey coastline to evaluate what worked 
and what didn’t work.  Is that publicly available and can be shared with this 
Committee? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  You’re saying after Hurricane Sandy, 
ma’am? 
 
SENATOR BECK:  I understand that the Army Corps of 
Engineers was deployed right after Hurricane Sandy to go, literally, 
municipality by municipality on the coast and take a look at what worked, 
what didn’t work, and sort of put together a comprehensive report about 
the Jersey coastline.  And I’ve been told that a couple of different times -- 
that that kind of analysis was being done by the Army Corps.  I’m just 
wondering if it is available to us as we are out talking to residents and 
constituents and, I think to some degree, trying to persuade people that 
they want to embrace dunes and mitigation efforts.  It certainly would be 
helpful. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Yes, ma’am, I understand.  And I think 
we would look forward in providing that.  I’m not aware yet that we’ve 
completed such a report; however, we are required by law to provide that by 
this legislation that just passed and has been signed.  But I’m not aware that 
we had that compiled right now in one convenient report for the entire 
coast of New Jersey.  But I trust that it would be made available when we 
complete that. 
 
 
 
42 
 
SENATOR BECK:  Thank you.  Thanks for your time. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Senator Bucco, you have a question? 
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  Yes, thank you. Mr. Chairman. 
 
Good morning, Colonel.  Thank you for coming.  Your 
testimony has been very informative. 
 
I just have several questions for you.  One of them is:  With the 
working relationship with our government, especially DEP, have you been 
finding the cooperation that you needed or is there something that we can 
do to help, or change, or whatever? 
 
COLONEL 
BECKING: 
 
No, 
I’d 
say 
working 
with 
Commissioner Martin and the rest of his staff at DEP has been great.  
They’re a great group of civil servants that you have going on there in New 
Jersey and we appreciate all their support -- prior to the storm and after. 
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  We appreciate that, because we are 
concerned about making sure that our shore area is rebuilt as quickly as 
possible.  If there is anything we can do to help to expedite any of the 
problems, we would--  As the Chairman had said, don’t hesitate to come to 
us also, as he told the attorney before you testifying. 
 
But with the designation of the FEMA report that came out 
with the designation of the properties and the level of homes that had to be 
raised -- and we understand some of them are up as high as 12 feet -- that’s 
a story and a half -- it seems quite extensive.  But my question then is:  
With the building of the dunes, does this change designation on some of 
these properties? 
 
 
 
43 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Sir, I understand your question.  And 
we don’t get involved heavily with FEMA’s maps and your determination of 
flood zones.  That’s something that FEMA handles.   
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  Why?  Why don’t we get involved with 
FEMA?  It’s a government agency, we’re a government agency. 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  As I understand it, sir -- and I’m pretty 
new to the Corps of Engineers -- but I’m pretty sure that’s not one of our 
missions.  We get directed what our missions are by Congress, and I’m 
pretty sure that’s not one of our missions. 
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  How does FEMA designate these areas 
then -- by what studies?  Do you have any knowledge of that? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  I don’t have direct knowledge.  I would 
suspect they do engineering studies to develop those.  But I’m not 
intimately familiar with that. 
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  Maybe the left hand and the right hand 
should be talking together to try and come up with a designation.  Because I 
understand some of these designations -- there are discrepancies in some of 
these designations, and our concern is what the homeowner -- the property 
owners are going to be doing with--  Whether they’re going to raise up these 
properties to 12 feet, or possibly even walk away from their properties if 
their mortgage is upside down or if they don’t have a mortgage and they 
can’t afford to raise their properties.  So it’s a concern to all of the towns 
along this area, and it’s a concern to us in the Legislature, of having the 
towns lose additional ratables, as we heard this morning. 
 
Okay, but just to pick up on Senator Smith’s question about 
the buyouts.  Would it be prudent for us to go ahead with the buyouts as 
 
 
 
44 
quickly as possible for the people who do want to sell out in the areas that 
are designated, and then look to building the dunes?  Or are the dunes first, 
and then the buyouts next? 
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Sir, I understand your question, but I 
think from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ point of view, we just have to 
have the real estate easements in place to be able to proceed with the 
coastal protection works that we’ve been authorized to construct.  The 
sequence that you’re describing, I don’t know if I could provide you advice 
on that. 
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  Well, then, Mr. Chairman, I think that 
we should also look at that scenario of the buyouts maybe preceding even 
the dunes.  Because that could happen a lot quicker than trying to get the 
permitting and all to try and rebuild the dunes over several years. 
 
Thank you, Colonel.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  And just for everybody’s sake, the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency is responsible for updating these maps.  
The remapping process is ongoing, and it was not originally due to be 
released until the summer of 2013; but FEMA, at the urging of Congress or 
the Governor, released the maps early for 194 New Jersey coastal 
communities.  And then the Governor, through executive order in January 
of this year, signed an emergency regulations to adopt FEMA’s proposed 
advisory base flood elevation maps, even though they have not yet been 
promulgated by FEMA.  So really it’s FEMA working with our 
Administration; the Army Corps of Engineers really has nothing to do with 
that.  As part of the executive order, the Administration did say if the maps 
were to change they would also change their executive order as well.  That is 
 
 
 
45 
a whole--  FEMA, for the rebuild for certain homes, is a whole different 
topic.  We’ve invited FEMA here today; they did not have the proper 
authorization from the Administration to be here.  So we were unable to get 
them today. 
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  Which Administration? 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  The Executive Branch. 
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  I didn’t know that FEMA has reporting 
duties to the-- 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  They are here, literally, as a guest of the 
State of New Jersey. 
 
SENATOR BUCCO:  Yes, okay. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Senator Ruiz, and then Senator 
Thompson -- I’m sorry. 
 
SENATOR RUIZ:  Thank you, Chairman, and thank you for 
your testimony today, and the work that you have done and will continue 
to do along our coastline. 
 
I want to thank Chief Mastronardy for taking me out this 
morning.  I wasn’t available to attend the tour earlier.  During excavation a 
lot of the debris has been cleaned up.  It’s clear that the devastation is still 
really severe along our coastline.  
 
And as we sit here discussing about the rebuilding of dunes, it 
was evident to me -- and I am not an engineer -- but associations that have 
the ability to vote as to whether they want to have these dunes built to the 
specs of the Army Corps of Engineers also have an impact on the 
communities behind them.  And I think that that’s something for all of us 
to take into consideration, when we’re thinking long-term, in specific areas 
 
 
 
46 
that had devastation outside of association areas -- that have the right to 
vote as to what they want their shorelines to look like, but not recognizing 
the impacts of, when waters come out, what other communities have to deal 
with. 
 
So not a direct question, but just--  Senator Thompson, I think 
you alluded to some of that earlier in your remarks.  And I think it’s 
something we have to be poised to deal with. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Senator Thompson. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  One further comment on that part 
there. 
 
Again, when earlier you were talking about that, they were 
saying the public spends public money for personal property improvements, 
etc.  I don’t see that they’re spending in this case any different than when 
they take personal property to flatten a roadway.  Thus, they’re not doing 
that for the owner’s personal property to benefit them, they’re doing it to 
benefit the general public.  Well, here if you were taking part of their beach 
to benefit the people who live behind them, it’s the same thing.  You’re 
benefitting more than just a personal, private owner. 
 
But I did want to comment on the question raised earlier by 
Senator Smith relative to the Cuomo buyout proposal versus the Christie 
buyout proposal.  And as he said, Cuomo had proposed that they buy out 
any willing seller, as opposed to the Christie proposal which is to buy 
communities out rather than individuals.  I think the Governor, in taking 
that approach, is recognizing there will only be limited dollars available for 
buyouts.  There will not be adequate dollars to buy from everybody who 
wants to sell their homes because they were flooded.  And his thoughts are, 
 
 
 
47 
“If we buy a community out, we have solved a problem in that area.”  Well, 
if you buy a home here and a home there, well, that homeowner is happy 
but you have the same problem in that area next year the next time the next 
flood comes, or whatever. 
 
So by buying out an entire neighborhood you’ve eliminated a 
problem area.  Buying a sporadic home here or there, you still have the 
problems out there in that area.  You’ve not solved anybody’s problem.  So 
I think that’s why he is recommending that approach versus the Cuomo 
approach. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Is that a question, or-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  That was just a statement. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Okay, a statement.  Okay, that’s what I 
thought. 
 
Any other further questions? (no response) 
 
Well, Colonel, we appreciate the Army Corps of Engineers’ 
efforts to support us.  We know you have the mandate and the 
appropriation, but there is a lot of work to be done, I guess, before we will 
see Army Corps of Engineer projects, especially along the northern barrier 
islands.   
 
So thank you; thank you for being here.  
 
COLONEL BECKING:  Thank you very much, ladies and 
gentlemen. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Dr. Anthony Broccoli from Rutgers 
University.  I know you’re under a quick time frame, so we’ll get you out of 
here.   
 
 
 
48 
 
And then we’re going to be followed by two experts on dunes -- 
the design of dunes -- Dr. Jon Miller of Stevens and Dr. Stu Ferrell of 
Stockton.   Dr. Broccoli is just going to talk a little bit about the surge and 
the climate change. 
A N T H O N Y   J.   B R O C C O L I,   Ph. D:  Thank you very much.  I 
appreciate the opportunity to speak with you this morning. 
 
I’m going to focus on how we plan for future weather extremes 
in coastal New Jersey.  Hurricane Sandy is certainly an example of a 
weather event that was highly unusual.  Even though we’ve had a lot of 
extreme weather events recently, the devastation caused by Sandy certainly 
puts it in first place among the most impactful weather events that we’ve 
had, not only in recent years but for many decades.  
 
Hurricane Sandy was very unusual. Most of the tropical storms 
and hurricanes that effect New Jersey generally are travelling more or less 
parallel to the East Coast of the United States -- moving to the north or 
northeast.  Hurricane Sandy followed a much more unusual track where it 
paralleled the coast several hundred miles offshore before making a sharp 
left turn and moving perpendicular to the coastline. 
 
This put the strong winds on the northern side of Hurricane 
Sandy along the beaches from Atlantic City north to Long Island and 
produced hurricane-force winds from the New Jersey coast all the way up 
through Cape Cod.  An impact of those winds was to drive a lot of water 
onshore.  When we talk about the storm surge from Hurricane Sandy we’re 
talking about water levels that were roughly 9 feet higher than they would 
have been without the storm, in places like Sandy Hook where the tide 
gauge stopped working at over 13 feet elevation, and in the Battery of 
 
 
 
49 
Lower Manhattan where the tide gauge recorded an all-time record of 14 
feet. 
 
While this storm surge was very well forecast by the National 
Weather Service and the various entities responsible for communicating 
that information, it still had a tremendous impact, as did the very strong 
winds which produced damage far inland. 
 
So in the several months since Sandy, the questions that I have 
typically received about the storm are whether or not it is a harbinger of 
things to come -- in terms of more extreme weather events in the future.  To 
answer that question, I think it’s important to start by saying a little bit 
about what we mean by normal climate.  Very often I’m asked, “Is there a 
new normal?  Are we seeing something that we haven’t seen before?”  But 
the term normal itself describes not just what ordinarily happens, but also 
the range of conditions, including the extremes that can happen at a 
location.   Estimating that full range of conditions that could happen at a 
location is difficult because we only have weather records that go back for a 
limited period of time.  Here in New Jersey we have pretty good records for, 
maybe, 100 or 115 years.  But when we’re talking about truly exceptional 
events, that makes it very difficult to say what the extremes can be. 
 
What we typically do when estimating the risks from weather 
and climate extremes is to use a concept called stationarity.  And stationarity 
is a term that statisticians use; but basically what it is, is the assumption 
that the future will be similar to the past, and by looking at what’s 
happened in the past we can estimate the probability of future events. 
 
So the 100-year storm that Senator Greenstein referred to 
before is really referring to an event that we estimate has a probability of 
 
 
 
50 
occurring in any given year of 1 percent.  That doesn’t mean that such 
storms will be 100 years apart; just by chance you could get more than one 
of them in a much shorter period of time.  But the idea is that if the future 
is like the past, then we can estimate the risk by looking at what has 
happened. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Dr. Broccoli, I’m going to interrupt for a 
moment. 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  And maybe you can clarify. 
 
Was this a 100-year storm?  Because it really--  Hundred-year 
storms are based upon precipitation from above.  This was--  The damage 
here was caused by the surge.  So was this a 100-year storm? 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  We can use the term 100-year storm, 100-year 
surge -- whatever the case may be -- to refer to many different elements of 
what a storm does.  So in this case, for the areas that we’ve been talking 
about today, the damage has come not from precipitation but from surge.  
We can look at tidal records and estimate how likely it is that an event like 
this could happen.  And our best estimates based on the past history is that 
Sandy’s water levels may have had less than a 1 in 100 chance of happening 
in a particular year.   But as I said, that’s based on looking at limited 
records that only go back, in the case of coastal water levels, maybe 100 
years or so.  But we can refer to a 100-year storm in terms of storm surge as 
well as in terms of precipitation. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Hurricane Irene affected -- I know Senator 
Bucco’s and a lot of other different areas of the state, which was a--  I don’t 
know if that was a 100-year or not, but that was based upon from 10 inches 
 
 
 
51 
of rain over a very short period of time.  All the towns impacted here, 
including Little Ferry, Moonachie, Sayreville, and the like, were all 
impacted by the surge, not from the rain, actually. 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  That’s right.  The story with Sandy in the 
areas that were most badly affected was really about surge.  The rainfall was 
relatively light over the northern two-thirds of New Jersey.  Extreme 
southern New Jersey did get 8 to 10 inches of rain, but it happened in 
places where the soil is sandy and it didn’t produce the kind of impacts we 
saw from Irene. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Sorry to interrupt you. 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  That’s fine. 
 
So the concept of stationarity -- the idea that the future is going 
to be similar to the past -- may not be a very good assumption, going 
forward, because the climate has been changing and those changes are 
expected to continue into the future. 
 
When we talk about climate change, we often use the term 
global warming, which places the focus on temperature.  But climate change 
also impacts sea levels.  And we have seen, in New Jersey, a rise in sea level 
of about 16 inches during the past 100 years.  Most of that rise in sea level 
is occurring because as the climate warms the water in the ocean expands 
and takes up more space.  And, in addition, ice that’s present in glaciers in 
the mountains, and also in places like Greenland and Antarctica, melts 
adding water to the ocean.  And the water added to the ocean has been 
increasing over the last 20 years or so, based on satellite measurements from 
Greenland and Antarctica. 
 
 
 
52 
 
The effect of climate change on sea level is very important 
because it raised the baseline for coastal flooding.  If Hurricane Sandy had 
happened a hundred years ago it would have still been a very strong storm 
that produced a sizeable storm surge; but that storm surge would have been 
16 inches less than it was happening in 2012.  And this is important, 
because projections for sea level rise by the middle of this century in New 
Jersey are an additional 16 inches or so, and as much as 3 feet by the end of 
the 21st century.  When we consider the future impacts of storms we have 
to keep in mind that this rising baseline is going to create more 
vulnerability. 
 
In the late 20th century -- let’s say from about 1950 on -- there 
were six or seven storms that produced levels of flooding at Sandy Hook 
that if we added 3 feet to them would have been comparable to what 
happened with Sandy.  So in the future, the issue is that our past record of 
what happened may not be a good guide to what can happen in the future 
because of this rising baseline for coastal flooding. 
 
There has been some discussion of whether or not climate 
change is making storms stronger.  For hurricanes there is some evidence 
that a warming climate will make storms stronger, although interestingly, at 
the same time, they may happen somewhat less frequently.  Coastal storms, 
nor’easters of the kind we had this past weekend -- the science is not 
available yet to tell us for sure what may happen.  This is something that 
we’re studying very closely as a community -- the community of 
meteorologists and climatologists -- but we’re not sure what the future holds 
in store when it comes to nor’easters.  But if we focus on the aspects of 
climate change that we do understand with high confidence, such as sea 
 
 
 
53 
level rise, that still tells us that in preparing for the future we may need to 
anticipate these serious flooding events happening more frequently than 
they have in the past. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Sarlo asked that I proceed with a 
couple of questions. 
 
If you were projecting 3 feet by the end of this century, you feel 
pretty confident in that, Doctor? 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  Well, 3 feet is sort of the middle of the range 
estimate.  There’s a lot of uncertainty that goes into this, not the least of 
which is we don’t know how much fossil fuels will be consumed during the 
rest of this century and how much carbon dioxide that we’ll put into the 
atmosphere.  The range of expectations is somewhere from, maybe, about 
20 inches on the low end to the high 50’s on the high end, with 38 inches 
being the best estimates from my colleagues Ken Miller and Bob Kopp at 
Rutgers. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Let me give the opportunity to be the 
most unpopular person in New Jersey.  If that is true, if we are facing a 
future of, on the average, 3 foot hike in sea level, what is our best policy?  
Should it be to do the Army Corps’ suggestion of dunes?  In other words, a 
barrier to the rising sea level where the impact of the storm is?  Or should 
we really be looking to make our barrier islands just islands with no 
development on them? 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  As an expert in climate I don’t feel especially 
qualified to answer such a difficult question of policy.  But I will say-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Very smart on your part.  (laughter) 
 
 
 
54 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  But what I will say is that it’s important to 
plan for these changes.  How we respond to these changes is a matter of 
public policy.  It involves balancing a lot of considerations, including the 
rights of property owners, the important role that the Jersey Shore plays in 
tourism.  But we need to do that with our eyes open to the changes that 
may be coming -- so that the plans that we make today take into account 
the best information we have. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Which team are you on in terms 
of the global climate change?  Do you believe that this is part of the natural 
cycle?  Do you believe it’s aggravated or stimulated by the carbon dioxide 
produced by our industrial society?  Or do you think it’s a combination of 
both? 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  Well, climate change is always a 
combination of many things.  But because we’ve known as a scientific 
community since the 19th century that carbon dioxide has the ability to 
change the temperature of the earth, and because we know that the amount 
of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has risen from about 270 parts per 
million before the Industrial Revolution to now about 395 parts per million,  
and the warming that we would expect to accompany that rise in carbon 
dioxide has, indeed, happened over the course of the last century and 
especially over the last several decades, there is no doubt in my mind that 
carbon dioxide emissions are playing an important role in the changes in 
climate that we’ve seen and will continue to play an important role in the 
future. 
 
 
 
55 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What do you think the probability is that 
we’re going to be able to stem the increase in the atmospheric global climate 
change?  Are you an optimist on that or a pessimist? 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  The answer depends on a lot of things.  The 
thing that makes me optimistic is that there is a lot of work underway for 
many reasons -- climate change is just one of them -- to develop new sources 
of energy that either don’t involve the combustion of fossil fuels, or new 
technologies that may enable the carbon dioxide to be removed from the 
waste stream when burning fossil fuels.  So I would say that both of those 
things make me optimistic, that there may ultimately be a reduction in the 
emissions of carbon dioxide. 
 
The fact that so much of our energy used globally comes from 
burning fossil fuels means that those changes are not going to happen 
immediately.  And that’s why there’s also a need to plan for changes in 
climate that we will see over the decades to come. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
Do you own property down the shore? 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  I do; in fact, before I came here this morning 
I was across the bridge visiting my condo, which I haven’t been able to 
spend any time in for the last four months.  That’s a small-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  First floor?  Second floor? 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  What’s that? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  First floor or second floor? 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  First floor unit. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
 
 
56 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  The inconvenience we’ve had is minor 
compared to the people who have lost their primary homes.  And we didn’t 
take water in our living area; instead we took water into the utilities and in 
the mechanicals, which is why it’s not able to be occupied at the moment. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What’s your plan for the future of your 
property? 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  I’m going to hold onto it.  I’m hoping that 
within a couple of months we’ll be back and we’ll have our utilities again.  
But in planning for the future there’s a lot of uncertainties:  What is it 
going to cost to insure this property?  I certainly wouldn’t pass it along to a 
succeeding generations without making sure that they were aware of the 
risks that are associated with owning property on the New Jersey coast or 
on any other coast. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Doctor. 
 
Senator Thompson. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Of course, we’re focusing on the 
impact of the increase of the CO² levels in the atmosphere.  There are some 
other significant changes taking place on the earth that I haven’t heard of 
anybody doing any studies on.  For example, now we speak of alternative 
energy sources -- one of those, of course, is increasing use of solar power.  So 
we’re putting all these solar panels out there to absorb sun rays and 
generate electricity, etc.  And quite a bit of solar energy is being absorbed 
that way.  Normally this solar energy is absorbed into the earth.  That has 
to have some kind of impact also on what goes on here.  But nobody is 
looking at what will be the possible impact of the fact that we don’t get that 
energy going into the earth that we’d normally get. 
 
 
 
57 
 
Another factor that I wonder about:  We’ve been using an awful 
lot of petrochemicals -- oil and so on.  So vast amounts of oil is being 
removed from the earth’s surface and so on, and then consumed 
(indiscernible) to CO² and etc.  What is the consequence of these big 
deposits that we’re removing down there and not replacing; maybe we’re 
putting water in or so on.  But these are issues that maybe you ought to 
have some of your colleagues take a look at and see what are those impacts. 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  There actually has been quite a bit of work 
that’s been done looking at alternative energy and the effects that they can 
have on weather and climate.  This has been most prominent with respect 
to wind energy -- because if you put up wind turbines, the energy is coming 
from the wind so you’re producing energy by essentially slowing down the 
wind by having it turn the turbines. 
 
For solar energy, we are lucky in that even with the rapid 
growth in solar energy, it is still just a miniscule fraction of the earth’s 
surface that’s being covered with solar panels.  And very often those solar 
panels are put on buildings or other structures that would be preventing 
solar radiation from reaching the Earth directly anyway. 
 
But certainly it is wise as we go forward with alternative energy 
sources to try to see what kind of impacts they may have on the 
environment, including the climate. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  I realize the problem is miniscule 
but, again, one predicts in the future to make an estimation of what’s going 
to be the outcome of-- 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  Right. 
 
 
 
58 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Okay, thank you.  Thank you, Dr. 
Broccoli. 
 
DR. BROCCOLI:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  I’m assuming we’re going to be seeing 
more and more storms, unfortunately, over the years. 
 
Dr. Jon Miller, Stevens; Dr. Stu Farrell, Stockton College.  We 
will take--  Come on up. 
J O N   K.   M I L L E R,   Ph. D.:  Well, thank you very much.  Thank 
you for the opportunity to come and speak to you today about a topic 
that’s certainly going to shape the future of the Jersey shoreline for the 
coming century. 
 
Just to kind of orient you:  What you have before you--  We 
were kind of under the impression you might have PowerPoint facilities, so 
you’ll see some slides.  You’ll also see some written testimony that I 
prepared.  I’m not going to read directly from it-- 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Please. 
 
DR. MILLER:  --because of time issues.  So what I’m going to 
try to do is just highlight some of the most important things that I have 
there. 
 
First of all, just a little background about myself:  I’m a coastal 
engineer, so what I do kind of bridges the gap between some of the stuff 
you’ve heard already -- Dr. Broccoli, the Corps of Engineers, and what Stu 
Farrell were talking about.  We basically look at buildings, we design things 
along the beach -- things for shore protection, whether it be seawalls, beach 
nourishments, sand dunes, things like that.  So we get involved with all of 
that. 
 
 
 
59 
 
My objective here today is to talk a little bit about what I call 
rehabilitating the New Jersey shoreline.  I think the term rebuilding is bad 
because it implies that we’re just going to put back what was there.  And I 
think that that’s not something that we want to do.  We want to take into 
consideration what we’ve learned about the coast -- what we can do to 
improve things and what we can do to make the communities more hazard 
resilient and more sustainable for the future, moving forward. 
 
One of the first things that I wanted to do is to bring out a little 
bit of background about beaches and coastal changes.  It’s actually on the 
4th page, for those of you trying frantically to keep up.  One of the things 
to keep in mind is that the coastline -- beaches themselves -- are what we 
call dynamic landscapes, being that they’re constantly in a state of flux.  Left 
to their own natural processes--  The thing that you see there is an 
illustration of Sandy Hook.  Sandy Hook, at times, was an island; it broke 
off then reattached.  It’s one of the more dramatic illustrations of what the 
natural coastline wants to do. 
 
Obviously we’ve developed a lot of our coastline so we can’t 
allow things like that to happen anymore.  A great example is the breach in 
Mantoloking; again, a completely natural process but we can’t have that 
happen where we have development.  So we have to kind of take a look at 
what we can do to prevent these types of things from happening and live 
more sustainably along the coastline. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Let me ask you, real quick. 
 
The breach at Mantoloking -- is it just because it was a narrow 
strip of land there, or did it have something to do with where the storm -- 
the impact of the storm -- did the storm hit that area more severely, the eye 
 
 
 
60 
of the storm?  We know the eye of the storm hit Atlantic City, but the 
waves of bands around the northerly end -- was there a greater impact at 
that specific location? 
 
DR. MILLER:  It’s due to a combination of factors.  
Particularly, Sandy was a little bit abnormal in how spread out the wind 
field was where the major surge was.  So the areas of northern Ocean 
County got impacted most dramatically. 
 
Naturally what happens is the sand on the beach kind of moves 
around and it generally moves in one direction or the other -- either north 
or south.  And as it moves in that direction, typically what would happen is 
the barrier island would start to thin out a little bit in certain sections. 
What we typically see when we have breaches is that a storm surge comes 
in, raises the water level in the bay and, essentially, there is just a weak 
point -- a narrow point -- that is a hydraulically more efficient way for water 
to get back out and it just blows through.  It can blow out in either 
direction.  So it’s a combination of a storms surge, the character of the 
storm, narrow spot, and it even has to do with the different types of soil -- 
how erodible the different stretches are.  In Mantoloking in particular we 
saw a lot of different scour depressions -- basically just areas where up to 8 
to 10 feet of sand were just removed out.  And right next to that there were 
areas that were not impacted at all.  It has to do the material, and how 
erodible it is, and how it responds-- 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Do you think the breach actually occurred 
from the water trying to get back out, or the breach occurred from the 
surge? 
 
 
 
61 
 
DR. MILLER:  It can occur in both directions.  A lot of times 
what will happen is the water will come up over the dunes and wash across 
the island; and then when the water goes back down in the ocean, now that 
water is stuck and it looks for a way out.  So it can happen in both 
directions. 
 
A little bit of this is touched on in the 5th slide -- it’s the 
Sediment Budget.  I thought it was appropriate given the Committee that 
we’re before here today.   Basically, beaches operate just like a checking 
account.  If you’ve got more that goes out than comes in, you’ve got a 
problem.  And that’s the way that beaches operate.  If you’ve got more sand 
that leaves the system than comes in, you’re going to tend to have an 
erosion problem.  Now, that erosion problem can happen over time, 
through long-term processes; it can happen on a seasonal basis; it can 
happen very dramatically like we saw in Sandy.  Just like in your checking 
account, perhaps.  If we get that dramatic withdrawal, if we get something 
like Sandy that causes a lot more to go out than comes in, you feel it a lot 
more.  And that’s kind of what happened with Sandy.  We felt the impact 
very dramatically. 
 
But basically all the time subtle changes are happening -- things 
like Sandy Hook actually elongating.  We just don’t tend to notice those as 
much as we notice something like Sandy. 
 
One of the problems with these very dramatic events is that 
unlike long-term changes, where we have an ability to respond kind of 
slowly over time, when they occur so rapidly we don’t have that ability to 
respond.  And usually the rapid changes are also the ones that are the most 
significant in terms of removing sand from the system permanently.  In the 
 
 
 
62 
case of Sandy, a lot of the sand was moved over the barrier island and 
deposited into Barnegat Bay.  A lot of the sand is put into the streets, into 
people’s houses.  A lot of the sand--  Some of the sand is actually moved far 
offshore where it’s not coming back.  So without help, without assistance, 
that sand is not going to make it back to the beaches.  Now, communities 
do a great job; I know in Toms River here they’ve been doing a great job 
trying to recycle the sand and get it back onto the beaches as fast as 
possible.  And that’s great.  But there is still the sand that ended up in the 
Bay and some of it may have ended up offshore that is basically gone from 
the system.  So now we’re faced with the challenge of replacing that, and 
that’s part of what the Corps of Engineers was talking about with the beach 
nourishment projects. 
 
The 7th page has just some dramatic storms.  Sandy was not the 
first and will not be the last storm that has hit the New Jersey coastline.  
There are some dramatic storms of the 20th century listed on that page.  
The ones that are highlighted kind of illustrate some of the responses that 
we’ve had as a State to storms that, I think, have been fairly successful in 
the past.  Prior to Sandy, the 1962 storm was probably the worst in terms 
of impact in our history.  During the 1962 storm a lot of the southern New 
Jersey coast was impacted; a lot of the homes had the same types of damage 
-- lifted up off their foundations, just wiped clean -- similar to what we saw 
in places like Ortley Beach and Mantoloking during Sandy.  After that 
storm, a lot of the rebuilt houses were built on more solid foundations using 
pilings and things like that.  In part that is what limited the amount of 
damage that we saw to the southern part of the state.  Part of it had to do 
with the storm being more concentrated up here, but part also had to do 
 
 
 
63 
with the fact that houses down there were rebuilt after the 1962 storm and 
were to a higher standard. 
 
The 1984 nor’easter--  After that, the State of New Jersey 
supported the New Jersey Beach Profile Network, which Stu Farrell, I’m 
sure, will talk a little bit about.  Basically, it provided annual monitoring of 
the beaches in New Jersey so we know what condition they’re in on a year-
to-year basis. 
 
After the 1991 and 1992 storms, the State of New Jersey 
responded by establishing the Shore Protection Fund, which some of you 
are very familiar with.  That fund has been instrumental in providing 
protection to a lot of the areas that were lesser impacted by the storm.  I’ll 
talk a little bit more about that later on. 
 
And the Hurricane Sandy chapter -- that’s kind of what we’re 
trying to discuss here today, and figure out what kind of a response we’re 
going to have, and how that will play out in the future and hopefully make 
us more resilient. 
 
Structural responses.  We’ve done everything in New Jersey; 
we’ve built groins, and jetties, and breakwaters, seawalls, bulkheads -- you 
name it, we’ve tried it.  I think something that we have--  I think something 
that we need to keep in mind, moving forward, is the approach that we’re 
going to use is not necessarily one or the other of these.  I’m not going to 
say, “Build a groin everywhere, build a wall everywhere, build a beach 
everywhere.”  I think we have to think about the specific processes 
occurring at a site, and use the best science and engineering to design a 
project that’s going to provide the most protection to the area that we’re 
 
 
 
64 
looking at.  I think it will incorporate some, if not all, of these in different 
locations. 
 
One thing that is kind of missing a little bit is innovation -- it’s 
something that we, as engineers, relish -- the ability to innovate and to find 
solutions to problems.  I think there are opportunities for innovative 
solutions for protecting shorelines that have not necessarily been 
implemented in the past.  The state of Florida has a program, the 
Innovative Erosion Control program.  It’s not experimentation, but it’s 
trying something that coastal scientists and engineers believe there’s a 
reasonable chance of success -- even if it hasn’t been tried before.  And I 
think we need to encourage that if we’re going to find solutions that are 
sustainable for the future. 
 
Living shorelines.  That’s kind of the next -- and one of the 
things that we’ve been involved in.  On Bayshore communities it involves 
using elements that create habitat as well as provide some protection.  
They’ve been used extensively in Maryland, North Carolina, and Virginia.  
We’re starting to use them in New Jersey, and I think that moving forward 
that’s something that we’re going to need to take a closer look at.  And the 
DEP actually has been involved in trying to speed the approval process -- 
the permitting process -- to get these projects built and move them forward.  
So that’s a positive step. 
 
Beaches and dunes.  The beach nourishment projects -- what 
they do is they put sand back on the beach.  The erosion is caused by the 
fact that there is not enough sand, so we put sand back onto the beach.  
The important thing to kind of consider is that just putting it back on the 
beach doesn’t solve the erosion problem.  If the beaches were eroding prior 
 
 
 
65 
to the beach nourishment, they’re going to continue to erode.  It’s kind of 
like if you’re checking account is eroding over time; if you get a big influx of 
cash, if you don’t do things to address the issues or problems, eventually 
that cash is going to run out and you’re going to need another influx of 
cash.  That’s basically what a beach nourishment is.  The Corps of 
Engineers’ projects all have renourishment intervals and they take that into 
account when they design them -- when they do their cost-benefit analysis.  
So the idea is they build these projects; they know they’re going to have to 
go back and renourish them, typically anywhere from three and seven years 
after they’re constructed.  And that’s something, again, that’s been taken 
into account when they’re designed and have done their cost-benefit ratios. 
 
There is a little bit of information about how much beach 
nourishments cost and how much sand we’re talking about.  It’s a lot of 
sand and beach nourishment projects do tend to be expensive.  
Mobilization costs are typically between $2 million and $5 million, 
depending on where the dredge is at any given time -- the process it takes to 
get it up here.  And then it’s $5 and $15 per cubic yard for a project.  So for 
a very small beach nourishment project, you can do it for about $5 million  
-- which is expensive.  Generally, the rule of thumb -- I think somebody 
asked this previously -- the general rule of thumb is the longer a project is, 
the longer it lasts.  And it’s not a one-to-one relationship; basically, if you 
double the length of a project, the length of a shoreline that’s protected, the 
sand lasts four times as long.  That’s just a--  It’s based on engineering 
guidance; that’s based on an analysis done of beach nourishment projects in 
the past.  So when we kind of split up these projects and do them piece by 
 
 
 
66 
piece, they don’t last as long as they would and won’t be as effective as they 
would be if we nourished big sections all at once. 
 
Natural sand dunes.  One of the big issues I know is people 
don’t want their views blocked.  I think we’ve done a bad job in the past of 
relaying what is the height of a sand dune, versus the elevation of a sand 
dune.  Most of the Corps of Engineers’ projects have dunes with an 
elevation of 22 to 24 feet, which sounds very imposing.  But that elevation 
is basically measured from the waterline.  So if you’re standing on the 
beach, or you’re standing on your back deck, or you’re standing on the 
boardwalk it’s not 22 feet above that level; it’s 22 feet above the water.  So 
if you’re standing on your deck or the beach, more typically the dune is 6 to 
15 feet tall.  Which is still, certainly, tall enough to block some views but 
it’s not nearly as dramatic as saying it’s 22 feet.  So I think we need to keep 
that in mind. 
 
Protective capacity of dunes.  FEMA has this so-called 540 rule 
which says that basically you need 540 cubic feet per foot of beach as the 
volume of sand that’s required to qualify, under FEMA regs, as a storm 
surge and wave barrier.  And that’s a lot of sand.  The little sketch there 
kind of shows how it’s measured.  It’s in the primary frontal dune, so it’s 
not even the entire dune.   
 
Prior to Sandy occurring, many New Jersey dunes did not meet 
this requirement; I would say most did not meet this requirement.  One 
thing that’s going to be interesting to consider also with the new maps that 
come out -- if the flood elevation, the base flood elevation, the 100-year 
elevation is elevated or raised, less of that dune will count because basically 
 
 
 
67 
the bottom part that you count is higher now.  So that’s something that 
may come through with these flood elevations. 
 
The Shore Protection Fund.  I had mentioned it before--  Again, 
the Shore Protection Fund was set up in 1994 after the major nor’easters in 
1991 and 1992.  It was originally set at $15 million.  It has since been 
increased to $25 million in 1999, but it’s been essentially flat since them.  
That fund has been instrumental in most--  In the sections of New Jersey 
that have been nourished, that the Corps of Engineers has participated in, 
that fund has helped fund the local share or the State’s share.  Those 
projects are basically funded as 65 percent cost to the Federal government, 
35 percent to the State.  The State then splits that 35 percent between the 
local municipality and the State itself.  The municipalities end up paying 
about 9 cents for every dollar of a beach nourishment project.  It’s not just 
beach nourishment projects.  They fund structural stabilization as well.  It 
doesn’t just fund ocean coastlines, it funds bayshore stabilization projects as 
well.  That money has been essential in helping to protect the New Jersey 
coast. 
 
And then there are just a few examples that I wanted to show of 
what we would consider good coastal engineering practice.  The first one -- 
it’s on page 15, again, if you’re following along -- it’s a picture of Ortley 
Beach.  I believe you have color copies.  The little dots on the aerial 
photograph represent FEMA damage assessments: basically, the darker the 
dot, the more significant the damage.  I believe red is structures that are 
completely removed.  And you’ll see there’s a cluster of them right there in 
Ortley Beach.   
 
 
 
68 
 
So one of the questions is, “Why Ortley Beach?  Why did this 
happen?”  Then if you look to the left there is a series of lines or plots. They 
are beach profiles which were taken from the work that Stockton does 
through the New Jersey Beach Profile Network.  I’m sure he’ll talk more 
about it.  But basically you can see the dune -- the size of the dune -- in 
Ortley Beach, which is obviously the small one.  And then the two 
neighboring towns to the south -- the Seaside Park profile and the Midway 
Beach profile.  And that just gives you an idea, even though there was “a 
dune” at Ortley Beach -- a mound of sand -- you can see how it paled in 
comparison to the size of the dunes in the other communities that, for the 
most part -- again if you look at the dots, if you believe the dots -- most of 
the southern part of the--  From basically the bridge down south it’s kind of 
in the unimpacted zone.  So the beaches and dunes in that area certainly 
provided a significant protective benefit to those communities. 
 
The next page just kind of shows the before and after, again 
from the work that Stu Farrell has done.  Basically you see the entire dune 
chopped off in Ortley Beach -- completely removed.  Then you look at 
Seaside Park and you see that there is still a significant chunk of that dune 
that was remaining.  So not only were those homes protected but there’s 
still some residual left in that dune. 
 
And the bottom is, of course, just an aerial photograph 
illustrating the damage in Ortley Beach -- and that wasn’t the worst one 
that I picked.  I tried to be on the up and up and take that picture from the 
location where the beach profile was.  I could have gone north or south and 
it would have been even more dramatic. 
 
 
 
69 
 
The next case is from Mantoloking.  You see an aerial 
photograph before and after Sandy.  There is one particular house that’s 
highlighted.  One thing that’s noticeable about this house is it’s not located 
right up on the beach compared to all the others -- it’s actually set back 
closer to the road.  Prior to Hurricane Sandy the dune that was in front of 
that house was about 150 feet wide.  So from the guy’s back door out to the 
toe of the dune or to the beach was a 150-foot wall, which is a pretty 
significant wide dune.  If you turn to the next page basically you see a 
photograph that I took of that house where you can see a big chunk of the 
dune kind of remaining in front of his house.  You see his house standing 
there, almost--  I mean, it looks intact.  I didn’t get a chance to go inside the 
house; I’m sure there was some flooding damage.  But notice that it 
structurally looks essentially fine.  If you look on the right there you’ll see, 
again, the dots from the FEMA damage assessment.  The one light-colored 
dot, the one faded yellow dot that’s there -- that’s that house.  That’s the 
only house on that stretch, either in the first or the second row -- it’s not 
just the first row; it’s the first or the second row -- that is kind of 
unimpacted, and that happened to be the house that was set further back 
and it had a big dune.  So that’s kind of a combination of two things that 
we would like to see: is building further back, but also having a significant 
sized dune in front of you.  Given the idea those houses in that area are 
about $4 million to $6 million apiece -- so the investment in the dune is 
relatively small. 
 
One thing to keep in mind -- somebody had brought it up 
before as well -- what happens on the barrier island is not just limited to the 
barrier island.  In the areas of Bay Head, Brick, the northern part of 
 
 
 
70 
Barnegat Bay, surge levels were a few feet higher potentially because of the 
breach that occurred in Mantoloking.  So if that beach had been nourished, 
if the Corps of Engineers’ project was in place, if the dune was there, the 
breach would not have occurred there.  And it’s not only the homes on 
Mantoloking that would have benefited, not only those on the oceanfront 
or the second row, but all those homes in the back bay area also.  Basically, 
once that breach occurs it allows the surge to go in and waves to attack 
those houses back in that bay area. 
 
Bay Head is another example.  Bay Head’s seawall protects 75 
percent of the town.  You can see on the right figure there the tail end of 
the seawall.  You’ll notice the picture on the left is, again, those FEMA 
analyses.  The houses that were destroyed were north of the seawall, 
basically outside of the area where it protected.  Also, if you looked at the 
before and after photographs -- which I didn’t have a before here, but -- 
those houses on the beach were actually built in the dune line.  So not only 
did they have a dune in front of it, they were actually embedded in the 
dune line, basically.  There are dunes on either side and then there’s a house 
in the middle.  Interestingly, those houses go back to the 1920s; they’ve 
been there as far back as I can see.  But those houses--  One of those houses 
in particular got destroyed -- it got carried and pushed into the house 
behind it and destroyed that house.  So again, illustration, perhaps, of 
seawalls and dunes. 
 
Monmouth Beach.  Monmouth Beach, as I’m sure most of you 
are familiar, has a massive seawall.  It’s a huge structure.  The picture that 
I’ve highlighted there is a house that I find particularly interesting because 
this guy is behind the seawall.  Most people would assume, “I’m behind the 
 
 
 
71 
seawall, I don’t have anything to worry about, I’m safe.  Why would I do 
anything differently?  Why would I take extra measures to build to a more 
resilient state?”  That guy elevated his house; it’s on a mound, you’ll see.  
He also has hurricane shutters on all the windows so you can tell he takes 
storm protection very seriously.  Compared to the houses around there -- 
most of the houses there did not get directly impacted, per se, by waves, but 
water splashing over the seawall scoured out foundations and things.  This 
guy, with his house on the mound with the hurricane shutters, kind of had 
these extra layers of protection, and I would be shocked if he even got 
water.  So he didn’t just go with the bare minimum and say, “I’m behind a 
wall, I’m safe.”  He went and did extra steps.  I think we should encourage 
that. 
 
The next page just kind of shows, on the engineering side of 
things, construction side--  Basically, the three pictures kind of concentrated 
on the lefthand side show the way in which some structures were secured to 
the pilings.  Those pictures are from Sea Bright and the beach clubs at Sea 
Bright.  The three on the lefthand side kind of illustrate bad practice.  One 
kind of uses these 1-inch by 1-inch wood strips and a few nails -- 2 or 3 
nails -- basically to secure the entire beach club to the foundation.  That’s 
insufficient.  Those beach clubs got basically tipped over and removed from 
the foundation.  The one kind of in the middle on the bottom is a proper, 
what we call, hurricane clip or hurricane strip.  What you can see is that 
they’re completely rusted through.  Those strips may have been effective 
when they were originally put on, but because of the rust and the corrosion 
around the strips, as well as the nails, those weren’t sufficient.  And we saw 
a lot of that up and down the coast.  And then kind of in the upper right is 
 
 
 
72 
an example of a good hurricane strap.  That’s actually on the boardwalk in 
Sea Girt -- the part that’s still standing.  What you’ll notice is --- or you 
may notice is that there’s--  Basically, every hole that’s available on the strip 
is being used by the fastener.  And in the case of that particular structure, 
they use screws instead nails, which is generally a more resilient, a more 
robust way of securing the decking to the substructure.  So again, we get to 
take a look at kind of how we build and how we construct these structures 
on the coast. 
 
The next picture shows kind of natural protection in Seaside 
Park.  There’s a little area, it’s a little marshy area.  Again, you’ll notice that 
there’s kind of that section in the middle where there are all these washed 
out color dots -- basically, the unimpacted structures.  Did that have 
something to do with that natural area?  It’s something I’m very interested 
in; I’m not positive at this point.  But that’s kind of the concept behind 
living shorelines approaches -- is it takes nature and it uses that to reduce 
the waves and the surge and the impacts to those structures. 
 
Buyouts is something that we’ve talked a little bit about here.  I 
think that buyouts are certainly one of the options that we need to 
consider.  It’s not something that we should take off the table.  I grew up in 
Rahway, so the picture you see there is from Rahway.  It’s an example of a 
very successful buyout from FEMA’s standpoint.  A bunch of repetitively 
flooded properties were bought out, and then during Hurricane Floyd that 
area flooded once again but there were no properties this time.  So it proved 
effective.  The thing that I can remember, though, growing up, there is it 
was very controversial at the time.  One of the issues was the amount of 
money that they were given would not allow them to buy another house in 
 
 
 
73 
Rahway so they had to move.  They took so much less money.  I think one 
of the issues with buyouts along the coast is that in certain communities,  
buyouts--  People get flooded; they want to sell out.  They just can’t find 
somebody to buy their house.  They would get out if they could.  So 
buyouts are an attractive option.  As soon as somebody offers them money, 
“All right, great, I’ll leave.”  The problem is, along the New Jersey coast 
there’s not that rush to leave.  There’s always a buyer for those properties; 
hence, the property values are going to be higher. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Buyouts are great for communities or 
inner suburbs that are along rivers and streams that flood.  But coastal 
properties -- clearly, people are buying there for a reason -- to be near the 
water.   
 
DR. MILLER:  And they’re willing to accept that risk. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Exactly. 
 
DR. MILLER:  And I think that makes it much more difficult-- 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Buyouts, I don’t think, are the answer 
along the Jersey coastline. 
 
DR. MILLER:  And I think--  And if it is part of the solution in 
certain areas, I tend to agree that you need to kind of target it and make 
sure you don’t kind of pockmark communities.  One of the fears is that you 
buy out--  Financially, the properties that will be most easily bought out are 
the lower-valued properties.  Unfortunately, that’s also the areas where the 
fishermen live; it’s where the policemen, the firefighters -- the local residents 
who built the fabric of that community, that’s where they live.  You don’t 
want to buy them out and then leave just the mansions on the beach. 
 
 
 
74 
 
Just finally, the conclusions:  Sandy’s not unprecedented; it will 
happen again.  It’s a storm that--  We’ve seen storms like that in the past;  
we will see more storms like that.  I think that we need to consider all the 
options that we have.  We can’t just focus in and say, “We’re going to just 
do one thing and that’s the only thing; that’s the only solution.”  Different 
areas, multiple types of solutions might be appropriate.  We need to 
evaluate those.  I think wherever possible we need to consider not just a 
single line of defense -- we need to have kind of a duplication, several lines 
of defense.  This is the kind of approach that the Dutch are taking, very 
much, with their flood control methods.  Don’t just build the one wall; 
build redundancy.  So that way if the wall gets over-topped, you’re not 
flooding out entire communities.  We need to kind of consider beaches and 
dunes as kind of the front line of what you take -- try and take care of as 
much of the storm as possible out in front of it.  Structures may be a part of 
the option, but then on the landward side of the structures we need to 
consider things like zoning codes, elevating structures, building structures 
on piles wherever we can, and building more robust structures on the 
construction practice side. 
 
And with that, I’ll be happy to take any questions that anybody 
may have. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Dr. Miller, this is a really nice package -- a 
nice presentation. 
 
I wasn’t sure if it was you or Dr. Farrell, somebody presented to 
many of the committees down here.  Was this presentation done before? 
 
DR. MILLER:  I’m sure we both have.  And I actually did 
present down here in Toms River to one of the local communities.  We’ve 
 
 
 
75 
also done some presentations in Bay Head.  One of our funding 
mechanisms is through the New Jersey Coastal Protection Technical 
Assistance Service -- it’s a mouthful.  It’s actually funding that comes 
through the Shore Protection Fund, and through them we work with the 
DEP and the local municipalities on hazard resilience, storm protection, 
and provide advice to both the communities and the State. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  You’re okay if we share this presentation, 
then, with the private communities-- 
 
DR. MILLER:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  --or other constituents who are very 
interested to learn more about dunes?  I mean, dunes is-- 
 
DR. MILLER:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Dunes is not a sexy topic, but it’s a--  
After the storm we realize it’s a necessity. 
 
DR. MILLER:  Yes, they’re very valuable.  I know they’re very 
controversial as well, so the more informed people are, the better. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Thank you. 
 
Any questions? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, one quick. 
 
New Jersey was pretty quick to adopt the advisory-based flood 
elevations put forward by FEMA.  In your experience, have these advisory-
based flood elevations been 100 percent accurate? 
 
DR. MILLER:  The quick answer to that is no.  I’ve been 
involved with FEMA on part of the technical advisory panels.  So when 
they were redeveloping these flood risk analyses, we were involved 
throughout that process.  What I can tell you is that the new maps were 
 
 
 
76 
scheduled to be released this summer and so they were 90 percent of the 
way down the path when Sandy hit.  And Sandy was probably their worst 
nightmare because in a sense it provided both a ground truthing, but also a 
way to say this is completely wrong.  So with these advisory elevations, 
what happened was the government had this information -- the latest, most 
up-to-date analysis.  It wasn’t complete yet and one of the things that 
hasn’t been completed is the wave modeling.  So when people talk about 
the V zones, they have not completed the wave part of that.  So that may 
be likely to change when the new maps come out. 
 
But the point was, people were going to rebuild as fast as 
possible.  And the government had this information; they wanted to release 
the best information that they had at the time -- which is what these 
advisory flood elevations are.  They realize, they recognize that they weren’t 
complete, but you didn’t want to have a situation where somebody comes 
back, rebuilds their house to the old flood elevations, and then the 
government comes in and says, “Aha! Surprise! We just did the remapping.  
Now you’re no longer above the 100-year flood elevation and so now your 
insurance is going to skyrocket.”  So this was sort of a--  I know that in 
releasing these maps, the tendency was to be conservative.  Again, they 
didn’t want people to build too low.  They said if they’re going to build too 
high or too low, we’d rather have them build them too high because then 
they’re safer, going forward.  I’ve been contacted personally by -- my dentist 
lives in Mantoloking and he talked to me about his house.  And I told him 
that there is a process.  Once the new maps get released later this summer 
or perhaps in the fall, there’s essentially a year, year-and-a-half-long process 
that FEMA has to go through.  There’s opportunities for municipalities to 
 
 
 
77 
question the new flood elevations.  They can go for revisions.  There’s a 
whole process before everything kind of becomes finalized.  And I imagine, 
based on some of the feedback I’ve heard, a lot of communities will go 
through that process. 
 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  There is a lot of confusion on these new 
maps and what municipalities -- what homeowners should do; modifications 
to their homes, rebuilding--  There’s just a lot of confusion  out there right 
now. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, there’s also a lot of resentment.  I 
have the Home News Tribune on February 9 -- Saturday, February 9.  I’m 
now clipping out my newspapers every time there’s something in it related 
to Sandy.   This was a homeowner’s letter to the editor which I think 
illustrates some of the frustration with this.   
 
It says--  It’s from a Laura Dickinson, Chadwick Island, Toms 
River. 
“Governor 
Christie’s 
adoption 
of 
the 
Federal 
Emergency 
Management Agency’s advisory base flood elevation maps is going to create 
a tremendous financial burden on many residents of New Jersey -- my 
husband and I included.  All we hear is ‘raise your home higher,’ but that is 
easier said than done. First, where do we get the tens of thousands of dollars 
to raise our home, which is erroneously designated in a velocity zone?  
Second, where are all of the qualified contractors going to come from to 
raise thousands of homes before these maps are adopted by FEMA? Third, 
how are we supposed to put our homes on piles as the velocity zone 
designation requires?  Move it into the street while the work is being done?  
Fourth, if we do not have the funds or the contractor with the ability to 
move our home out of the way, are we just supposed to knock it down and 
 
 
 
78 
rebuild and to bleed off our retirement savings?  Last, if the options are not 
feasible, and we are not one of the privileged few to receive a hazard 
mitigation grant, do we just suck it up and pay $31,000 a year for flood 
insurance, or sell our property at a massive financial loss?  These maps are 
severely flawed.  My husband and I are permanent residents on Chadwick 
Island in Ocean County.  Our home was never flooded since it was built 40 
years ago.  The flooding of Chadwick Island was the result of poorly built 
dunes on the ocean side which caused the Barnegat Bay to flood.  We 
certainly did not experience high velocity wave action as defined in the 
velocity zone designation; that is what happened on the ocean, not on 
Chadwick Island. 
 
I hope the Governor takes a hard look at the ramifications of 
his actions.  If these maps are allowed to stand, he can forget about 
restoring the shore.  I for one will be making my own sweatshirt with the 
new slogan ‘Destroy the Shore,’ because that is what will happen.” 
 
Now, that sounds like a very, very frustrated resident of Toms 
River.  And I don’t know what the truth is.  I mean, I would assume -- and 
you know what assuming does -- assume that FEMA would be the expert on 
this, and they would not have issued those advisories based on elevations 
willy nilly.  But two years from now if there are any significant changes to 
those advisory base flood elevations, you’re going to have a lot of really 
unhappy people. 
 
DR. MILLER:  Yes, and I’ve actually spoken with some 
residents from Chadwick Island on the phone.  And they’ve been very 
proactive in trying to get out in front of the issue.  And they’re looking at 
different consulting companies to hire that would be experts in disputing 
 
 
 
79 
the maps.  And I’ve advised them that they’re only advisory at this point. 
And they’re gung ho about -- they want to get out in front and do 
something now. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but they’re more than advisory.  
Didn’t we adopt them as the base flood elevation for the State even though 
they were only advisory? 
 
DR. MILLER:  They’re-- 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  In the executive order? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF AUDIENCE: (off mike)  The 
DEP adopted emergency rules.  They were adopted.  (Indiscernible) They 
are legally enforceable. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  They are legally enforceable, at this point.  
They’re not advisory. 
 
DR. MILLER:  I think some of that lies in a kind of disconnect 
between the FEMA intent in putting out these advisory elevations and how 
New Jersey has treated them.  I know for a fact that FEMA never thought, 
“All right, well, we’re going to put these out and then--” 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Should we as a State have waited a bit? 
 
DR. MILLER:  It’s a--  Can I plead the Fifth as well and say 
that’s--  (laughter)  I’m just a scientist.  I’m not smart enough. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’re giving you the opportunity to be 
the most unpopular -- or most popular -- guy in the state.   
 
I understand you don’t want to take a position. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  No, we respect you on that. 
 
 
 
80 
 
Both you and Dr. Farrell are going to need press secretaries 
because you guys are quoted in the article in the Record, too, today: “New 
Maps Complicate Victims.”  So we understand there are issues here.  And 
there is a lot of emotion involved with it.  But Senator Smith is absolutely 
correct.  The executive order is clear:  It does adopt the advisory flood 
elevations today.  But as you heard from the Toms River Borough Attorney 
and I think even from other municipal officials, many of the local officials 
are struggling with how to enforce them or how to apply them. 
 
DR. MILLER:  Especially when they disagree with them.  I 
mean, I spoke with the Toms River municipal engineer and he’s disputed a 
couple of the (indiscernible). 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Thank you.  Thank  you, Dr. Miller. 
 
DR. MILLER:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Dr. Farrell is next.  We’ll just take this 
question, then we’ll bring up Dr. Farrell. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Thank you. 
 
Of course, now, these are advisory, and you’ve said that about 
90 percent done when they issued the advisories, etc.  And, of course, they 
are subject to change.  If you had to conjecture about the changes that may 
occur, would you say that the changes that may occur in most instances will 
end up putting homes in a higher classification of risk or tend to put them 
in a lesser classification of risk?  Or is there no way of guessing -- in the 
most cases? 
 
DR. MILLER:  The intent with the advisory elevations was to 
put them in a higher category of risk; when in doubt to encourage people to 
build to a higher standard.  So my thinking is that once they complete the 
 
 
 
81 
wave modeling, and once they complete the final analysis, that we will see 
that the zones get dropped down -- the risks-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Not where people will be dropped 
to a lower zone, you’re suggesting. 
 
DR. MILLER:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Okay. 
 
The second thing, again:  Now, I am a little confused.  The 
Governor did, by executive order, adopt these as a statewide construction 
plan, etc.  But I think there is some requirement for the municipalities to 
adopt them too for it to really be in effect.  Is that necessary, or what is the 
situation here? 
 
DR. MILLER:  To be honest with you, I’m not really sure about 
that. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  You’re not sure?  Again, I’ve seen 
something that seemed to indicate the towns need to adopt it, as well as the 
State having adopted it, for it to be totally enforceable.  And, of course, I 
think the Governor’s point here in doing this was people right now have no 
idea what to do.  So he’s trying to set at least some kind of baseline out 
there so they have some direction.  Because many of them were going to the 
towns, and the towns said, “Well, we can’t give you approval because we 
have no idea what you have to do.”  Would you clarify for me--  Now, of 
course, in order to be able to qualify for flood insurance and so on you have 
to build to these standards if you have at least 50 percent damage and so 
on.  If you have the 50 percent, are you just denied ability to build if you 
don’t build to these standards?  Or is it a case of, “Well, you can go build 
 
 
 
82 
without building to those standards, but you can’t get any flood insurance.  
Or, if you do, you’re going to pay $31,000 a year.”  What’s the situation? 
 
DR. MILLER:  Well, the insurance rates are generally based 
upon where you lie with respect to the flood elevation.  So for every foot 
below the flood elevation that you are, you’re rates are going to go 
skyrocket.  For every bit above, you’ll get-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Well, you’re missing my question.  
My question here is, are you prohibited from rebuilding -- if you had 50 
percent or more damage -- if you don’t build to these specifications?  Or can 
you go ahead and build, but hey, you’ve got your problems relative to 
insurance? 
 
DR. MILLER:  I think that that’s more of a--  It’s not a FEMA 
decision.  FEMA is the one that readjusts the risk and then that risk is 
taken up by the insurance -- the Federal insurance program. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  No, no.  You’re still missing 
question here. 
 
Can somebody say, “The heck with what FEMA says.  My 
house was more than 50 percent damaged.  I’m going to go rebuild, and I’m 
not going to build to their specifications.”  Can they do that if they want to, 
regardless of what the impact is going to be on the insurance and so on? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Do you know the answer to that, 
Bob?  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I know the answer. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Bob knows the answer. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sam, I know the answer to that.  
 
 
 
83 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Okay. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  The answer is yes. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  They can. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You can rebuild.  But you won’t get flood 
insurance, and that’s an element of default on your mortgage. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Oh, I realize that.  But as I say, 
they can go ahead and build however they want to. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But you have to pay your mortgage-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  The towns will give them permits to 
build? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And not only that, a lot of the towns are 
not even charging building permit fees. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Oh, I realize that. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But the implications is no flood 
insurance, and pay your mortgage off because it’s an element of default. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  So somebody could go out there 
today and rebuild any way they wanted to without worrying--  I mean, the 
consequences are going to be there on insurance and everything else.  But if 
you want to go build, you can go build. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Any way you want to. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --yes and no.   What the Borough 
Attorney in Toms River said, they’re changing their local planning and 
zoning laws to make any raising of the building to be a permitted use, no 
 
 
 
84 
bulk variances.  Any change in coverage or side yard to be automatically 
approved and you don’t have to go through a planning and zoning board.  
That’s what we need to do for all the shore towns so that everybody--  I 
mean the worst thing that would happen-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Of course, you don’t have to go 
through a CAFRA permit or anything else if you build according to these 
codes.  But if you don’t then you may have to go through the-- 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Okay.  Thank you for very much. 
 
DR. MILLER:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
The next person is Mr. Stewart Farrell, Director of Coastal 
Research at Stockton College.   
 
Is that Mister or Doctor? 
S T E W A R T   F A R R E L L,   Ph.D.:  Doctor. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Doctor Farrell. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  For better or for worse. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Welcome. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Thank you very much for the opportunity to 
come and speak today. 
 
I tried to condense 41 years of work on New Jersey’s coast into 
two pages -- which I may have successfully done. 
 
The Coastal Center began 30-odd years ago at the request of 
the Borough of Avalon because their beach was disappearing 20 feet a week, 
for a total of 475 feet of retreat during the summer for no apparent reason.  
So we were asked to come in and take a look and see what was going on. 
 
 
 
85 
 
The mention of the Shore Protection Act of 1994 is key critical 
because that’s essentially the partnership developed with the Bureau of 
Coastal Engineering, under the DEP, to monitor the State of New Jersey -- 
starting after Hurricane Gloria in 1986 at 105 locations, from basically the 
Raritan Bay down the oceanfront coast into the Delaware Bay.  So we visit 
these sites individually twice a year; survey from across the dunes, across 
the beach, and out into water about 16 feet deep to get a picture of what 
the crossection looks like.  We also evaluate the Corps of Engineers’ 
projects -- take a look at them.  They survey them periodically; we try to get 
there more frequently. 
 
After Sandy we started-- October 31 -- to visit each of these 105 
sites as fast as we could; we did so by Thanksgiving.  So we have a pretty 
good idea of what happened, what worked, what didn’t.  And to take that 
right to the back page, in bold type, there were four keys to success in the 
Jersey Coast design and execution -- mostly in the execution, not necessarily 
the design. 
 
The beach width hasn’t been discussed much, but the key 
ingredient to the failure in Mantoloking was a 35- to 55-foot wide dry 
beach.  That was all the sand that was available.  They did the best they 
could to build dunes with the quantity of material they had available to 
them.  And we’ve been working with the Borough since the 1991 nor’easter 
as part of this process.  So a wide beach -- by wide I mean 250 feet of dry 
beach -- seems to makes a huge difference even in places without dunes.  
Witness the area in Point Pleasant Beach near Jenkinson’s holdings.  The 
beach is almost 400 feet wide in that location.  And the damage, while--  
Flooding occurred, over wash did occur; you did not have 15, 20 foot white 
 
 
 
86 
water bores crashing into the houses directly.  So the dissipative effect of a 
wide beach at elevation 5 feet above water level -- or 6.75 in the case of the 
Corps design -- was very instrumental in reducing the wave damage.  This 
was true in the City of Wildwood, which does not have a dune system, and 
in the City of North Wildwood, which built a dune system to Corps 
specifications using State funding in 2009.  That town suffered minimal 
damage because the dune absorbed what was left; in fact, the waves added 
sand to the toe of the dunes in North Wildwood as a result of dissipating 
their energy on the beach. 
 
Second is the berm elevation.  The higher the beach, the more 
those waves will break.  Even though the beaches flooded during the storm 
event with a 5-, 6-foot storm surge, the beach is underwater because it’s -- 
even still water.  Now you throw the waves on top of that.  I have been 
handed a picture of the white water bores in Sea Girt.  And, my God, it’s 
impressive.  Here’s this white water bore with timbers in it coming at you in 
this photograph and it’s at least 15 feet high.  The guy had real guts to 
stand there and take the picture, I’m sure. 
 
But nonetheless, that’s what does the damage.  It’s not the 
Hawaii 5-0-type wave curling over and coming down.  That happens--  You 
want that to happen as far from the shoreline development as possible so 
that that white water bore that washes in--  Just if you think in terms of 
going swimming and the waves are, say, 5 foot high breaking.  If the wave 
breaks right on you, it knocks you flat on your butt -- no doubt about it.  
But if it breaks and then rolls towards you, it’s no big deal.  Little kids dive 
under it; even the little 2-year-old can stand a 6-inch, white water bore.  It’s 
 
 
 
87 
not much of a deal.  We scale that up by orders of magnitude and you see 
the danger that results in having that happen right at your doorstep. 
 
The berm elevation, and then the dune height.  These numbers 
that have been put out there -- 22 feet, 16 feet, 14.75 feet -- all these are 
actually the result of designing wave runup to reach a particular elevation.  
These analogies of storms -- a 1-year, a 5-year, a 10-year, 20-year, 50-year, 
and 100-year storm events -- actually have parameters attached to them of 
stillwater elevation, wave period, wave height, and duration of the storm.  
That’s all attached to them.  And the Army Corps of Engineers two decades 
ago came up with a linear one-dimensional wave model to erode to an 
unconsolidated sand shoreline called S-Beach.  That model actually runs 
against the shoreline that you’re presented with in the computer, and it 
shows you how it will modify with the storm you predict to impact that 
beach -- whether it’s a 10-year storm, or a 20-year storm.  It’s just different 
water elevations and wave heights. 
 
So the dune height that has been derived from these successive 
studies that have been undertaken, the 14.5-foot dune, or 14.75-foot dune 
in Atlantic City which just barely kept Sandy at bay was, essentially, for a 
20-year or 5 percent likelihood of a storm occurring that year -- 20-year 
storm event.  The 16-foot dune is for the 50-year storm and the 22-foot 
dune is for the 100-year storm event.   
 
In Long Beach Island they built to the 22-foot elevation, which 
worked -- emphatically worked. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  But it’s not just about the height, right?  
It’s also about the-- 
 
DR. FARRELL:  It’s the width of the beach-- 
 
 
 
88 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  It’s the volume, right? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  The volume of sand in the dry beach, and in 
that dune. 
 
Now, the dune at the base was like 185 feet wide, at the base; 
rising at a 105 slope to the 22-foot--  And that was 25 feet wide flat.  So 
that kind of situation was what dramatically made the difference.  And it 
was the width of the beach, not just the dune elevation, that made those 
things as successful as they were. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  And that’s why Ortley Beach was hit so -- 
was so damaged because there was no width.  There’s no width to the 
beach. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  No width at all; in fact, it was our poster child 
in our 25-year report for the worst performing beach in New Jersey, in 
terms of shoreline retreat and narrowness and smallness of the dune.  And 
this had been discussed with the homeowners’ folks repeatedly, and what to 
do about it.  And we said you have to push for the Corps project.  The 
Corps project solves your problems almost overnight if you can get it built.  
And why that particular beach retreated as much as it did -- it lost 63 cubic 
yards of sand for every foot of shoreline at 8th Avenue in Ortley Beach -- 
kind of has to do with what Dr. Miller was talking -- this kind of undulation 
effect of the ocean shoreline as some parts of it erode back, some parts of it 
accrete seaward.  And this has been going on for forever, and we first 
noticed this up at the University of Massachusetts back in the 1960s.  A 
fellow called them sand waves or beach cusps.  Essentially, beaches will erode, 
erode; and then meanwhile down 1,000, 2,000 feet to the south it is 
 
 
 
89 
advancing and accreting.  And then this will switch back and forth in a 
fairly methodical sort of way. 
 
And the final piece of this thing is project maintenance.  Project 
maintenance is key to success -- just like taking care of your car.  Avalon has 
probably done more beach nourishments than any other community in the 
state.  They take it very seriously.  They’ve even funded it by themselves, 
on occasion, to restore their beach.  Because in 1987, I stood under the 
boardwalk and low tide was washing under the boardwalk in Avalon.  And I 
watched wave runup in April 1987 and splash up against this guy’s sliding 
glass doors.  He popped them open in a minute, and I said, “Eighty 
thousand for it, right now, where she stands.”  He slammed the door shut. 
 
Well, a couple sold their home for $68,000 that spring.  The 
guy bought it; did nothing, didn’t even paint it -- nothing, zero.  The next 
fall after the first beachfill was put in place with this New Jersey State bond 
money that was available at the time, he sold it for $365,000.  So that was 
the value of a beachfill to a property.  And these older folks said, “We might 
lose it all, so let’s just get rid of it.”  And they did, the guy buys it.  He turns 
it around after staying there briefly in the summer for a nice profit -- just 
because the beach was now 400 feet wider than it had been. 
 
If I may, I happen to have some information on questions that 
went by.  A question about Ocean City’s beaches:  Ocean City is a 
bifurcated project.  The Army Corps’ jurisdiction extends from the inlet 
down to 34th Street in Ocean City.  From 34th Street down to 59th Street 
is a New Jersey State project -- they are the key lead partner in beach 
nourishment.  They did beach nourishment there in 1995 and they did it 
again in 2001.  And they were preparing to come back again before Sandy 
 
 
 
90 
happened.  So much of the issues related to the questions that were asked 
of the Senator about Ocean City, from the folks down the lower -- south 
Ocean City, as they put it, is the 50s blocks -- was maintenance issues.  The 
beach was narrow, the dune had been already nibbled at by the 2009 storm 
series plus Hurricane Irene.  So that is basically why some failure occurred 
at that point. 
 
And in Monmouth County project, the Army Corps District in 
New York, when they first put this project together in the 1990s, dunes 
were optional.  They weren’t part of the requirement.  Asbury Park never 
built dunes; neither did Belmar.  Ocean Grove chose to let them occur and 
they basically put sand fences up, put the grass in, and just let nature do its 
job with this nice, wide beach they had to draw sand supplies from to build 
the dunes. 
 
The dunes in Spring Lake had existed from my childhood.  I 
used to do that boardwalk on a bicycle in the winter, and the dunes were 
always between the boardwalk and Ocean Avenue.  And the boardwalk was 
seaward of Ocean Avenue.  Well, that’s kind of -- the reverse should be the 
case.  The dunes should be in front of the boardwalk.  And what happened 
was the waves came in, up the dune ramp, hit the front of the dunes, went 
straight up, lifted the boardwalk off of its supports. 
 
So Monmouth County has to reevaluate the dune situation.  If 
the Corps comes back to widen the beach again, are we going to make 
dunes part of the issue regardless of the impact they may have on views 
from the Belmar boardwalk, the Asbury Park boardwalk?  And do they need 
to be 22 feet high -- at elevation 22, rather?  And the answer is probably not 
-- with that nice, wide beach you probably can keep them lower.   
 
 
 
91 
 
And Atlantic City proved they could do a pretty good job on 
about a 50-year storm event with 14.75 feet elevation dunes.  So the 
boardwalk in Atlantic City is at elevation 12.  So the dunes at elevation 
14.75, unless you want to lay on the bench and watch the view, are not 
particularly difficult. 
 
The problem down there with all the hype that went out in the 
press is that they used a beach grass type that has a 1-meter growth height 
which added 3-plus feet to the height of the dune.  You couldn’t see 
through the grass, so basically Commissioner Martin said, “Mow the grass; 
it’s probably part of the answer to that situation.”  So they’re very glad they 
didn’t lower the dunes back a year ago. 
 
Mantoloking.  We have worked for the Borough of 
Mantoloking for 20-odd years, starting after the 1991 perfect storm 
scenario.  After Hurricane Irene, in front of Herbert Street where the breach 
occurred, there was about 15 percent of the existing dune crossection left 
standing after Hurricane Irene.  The distance from the dune crest to the 
first properties deck was 15 to 17 feet.  That was all that was left.  Now, 
they restored the Hurricane Irene dune losses by pushing sand that 
accumulated on the beach afterwards back up to restore the dune, but 
effectively the first high tide of Sandy just erased it completely.  So the 
second high tide went straight through.  And the dunes at Herbert Street 
were wide but only 14 feet high.   And so it was rather easy with the wave 
runup in Long Branch at 24 feet; and in New Jersey’s State Park -- Island 
Beach State Park -- 16.5 feet on the dunes that we actually measured -- 
GPS, the debris lines -- so we had wave runup that was just going to ride 
over top of a 14-foot dune. 
 
 
 
92 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Did the surge--  Did the bayside homes 
get it twice?  Bear with me -- so the surge comes up to a level-- 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Cuts through. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Cuts through -- right -- comes through.  
Comes  across the Barnegat Bay-- 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Right. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  --into the mainland. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Right. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Right?  Into the mainland, until it hits an 
elevation that levels out.  Hooper Avenue -- one of these streets back over 
here--  Hits one of these streets.  Now from that velocity there is the 
reaction backwards.  Am I correct? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Most inlets that are cut in barrier islands are 
actually carved to become navigable inlets by the ebb flow.  The flood tide--  
The surge comes across everything like a big sheet wash, over everything. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Goes into the mainland. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Goes into the bays, floods the lagoons.  This 
happened in Pike’s Inlet in Great South Bay in Long Island in 1992, that 
created Pike’s Inlet that the Corps actually closed later on to stop the-- 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  But the houses on the barrier island on 
the Bay, from talking to those folks, they got it twice.  They got it from the 
surge coming across, but then they got it going back out. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Yes, when the flow came out--  The fact of the 
matter is, it was basically a Depression-era construction crew that built 
Highway 35 that saved them from having a navigable inlet to have to close.   
The big slabs that made up Highway 35 were 8 inches thick, 16 feet wide, 
 
 
 
93 
and about 25, 30 feet long.  And basically they just sat there on the--  They 
were undermined and collapsed, but they were like a huge resistance to 
further downcutting by the tides.  So the ebb tide just flowed over it.  I’ve 
got some of the pictures that were taken that show white water rapids right 
where Route 35 used to be.  And having been there on the ground three 
days later, stood on these slabs all at funky angles -- but the dotted lines 
were still painted there.  And the fish were swimming around our waders as 
we were looking at this and saying, “You know, this really saved their day, 
because these big slabs kept it from becoming a really deep inlet to have to 
worry about closing that” -- which would be hydrodynamically much more 
difficult than the major project they undertook anyway.  
 
So there were some plusses and minuses to how things were 
done.  Basically there were three breaches in Mantoloking: one at 
(indiscernible), one at Herbert Street, and one between Herbert and not at 
any particularly street.  We had a profile, and I think it’s 1117 Ocean 
Avenue.  There was not even a trace of foundation of the home left -- 
nothing -- just gone.  And so the beach elevation, when I sat there with a 
GPS -- and this is supposed to start at 15.3 feet elevation, guys?  We’re 
standing here at 6.  So we lost almost 10 feet vertically where this house 
used to stand. So in fact this wash-over effect put that sand in the 
community and into Barnegat Bay. 
 
And finally, the FEMA wave model.  The work that I’ve been 
involved with, just like Jon -- the base flood elevations, that modeling, is 
essentially complete and vetted by other--  The group that did the modeling 
has sent this out to be vetted by others.  So the BFEs of 11, 8, 9, 10 have 
been thoroughly, scientifically verified.   
 
 
 
94 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  They are the pre-Sandy-- 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --elevations? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  No, I’m talking about the advisory base flood 
elevations. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  But they’re pre-Sandy. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Yes. Pre-Sandy, but they were vetted. 
 
What hasn’t been done -- which has everybody in my neck of 
the woods down in Cape and Atlantic County all up in arms -- is these kind 
of art-like drawings of where these coastal A zones are going to be -- where 
minor wave flooding -- and the V zones have been placed on the Bay side of 
the barrier islands. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Can you just define for us the difference 
between the A zone and the V zone? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  The V zone is an elevation achieved by the still 
water during the flood -- whatever that is.  So that would be no waves, no 
nothing -- that’s how deep the water gets.  Then on top of that there is at 
least a 3-foot amplitude wave.  It may be bigger, but it’s what they define as 
where will that, at least a 3-foot wave, get to as it comes ashore.  And so 
they’ve determined the limit of the V zone where the propagation over land 
of a 3-foot-high wave on top of the still water gets to. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  So the V zone is a much greater-- 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Way bigger risk. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Way bigger risk. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Way bigger risk.  And then this-- 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Is all the barrier island now a V zone? 
 
 
 
95 
 
DR. FARRELL:  No, not even in the advisory maps.  But a lot 
of the barrier island--  What has been added -- it has them all completely 
mashugana -- is the fact that they put a V zone on the Bay side of the 
barrier islands and on the mainland.  So they’ve said that there will be 3-
foot high waves in Barnegat Bay, Lakes Bay, all the rest of the bays down to 
Cape May, and that this will also generate 3-foot high waves that will 
impact structures on the land side as well as on the back side of the barrier 
islands. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Do you believe that to be scientifically 
valid? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  No. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Because they might as well put 
them on Raritan Bay. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Well, basically, because I’ve been there 
afterward and the houses that were flooded -- no doubt about it, because 
there was a scum line on the buildings, on the Bay front, right on the Bay 
front-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I got the house. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Yes.  And there’s this scum line on the house.  
If there were waves, there would be no scum line.  These lines were snapped 
on every house, just like somebody had a chalk line and put this chalk line 
on each house and said, “Well, look at that.  There’s where the water 
came.”  I kind of said this up at the Commissioner’s meeting up in the State 
House last week, that when the Bay is full, it’s because the wind is out of 
the east, southeast, or northeast, and these Bayside properties are 
essentially in an offshore wind.  The wind’s blowing over their heads out 
 
 
 
96 
into the Bay.  So there are no waves.  Yes, I know waves occurred on 
Barnegat Bay when the water level was 5 feet deeper, because I have 
contacts in Forked River where the waves hammered their homes on the 
Forked River frontage there right along the Bay.  So yes, maybe there’s a 
validity to what V zones -- those parts.   
 
But the wave modeling hasn’t been done.  They’ve said so; not 
done.  They are not satisfied with the-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So why are we adopting the advisory base 
flood elevations, and now homeowners in the state are going to spend tens 
of thousands -- maybe even hundreds of thousands -- of dollars to raise their 
home if they’re not scientifically valid? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Well, they’ve done the science for inundation.  
Basically what they did was say, “Okay.  Anywhere the water is 4 feet deep 
or greater during that -- based on that base flood elevation -- so where the 
water is 4 feet deep you can have 3 foot waves.”  That was the first cut to 
this.  They have not dealt with obstacles, like rows of houses.  You asked 
the gentleman whether he owned property on the shore.  I happen to have 
three of them, so yes, I’m pretty familiar with the flood zones.  The Cape 
May Point, for example:  There is a little island, just standard A zone that 
the house is in; no problem with that.  It’s been that way forever.  However, 
now I’m completely surrounded by a wave velocity zone of the intermediate 
wave height.  So this is called the coastal A zone, which is: between 3 and 1-
foot waves will be in this zone to attack the buildings.  And it’s like, “How 
are we going to get waves off of Lily Lake in Cape May Point?”  It’s about 
the size of this -- 10 times the size of this building.  And so where are the 3-
foot waves coming from?   
 
 
 
97 
 
It’s basically not done yet.  In fact, it was essentially that they 
pulled the roast beef out of the oven while it was still rare.  And somebody 
likes well done meat and is not going to go for it.  The whole thing with the 
base flood elevations is as good as it’s going to get. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Do you realize how outrageous what 
you’re saying is?  No, really.  There are going to be tens of thousands of 
property owners all on the shore that are going to be raising their homes, 
potentially spending money-- 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Raising-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And by the way, not--  Some with good 
reason to do it. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But doing it on partial and preliminary 
information is insane. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  I think we have a lot of people who would 
agree with you, especially down in Cape Atlantic County.  Because we have 
had several meetings where code officials, municipal officials, engineers have 
all said, “Look.  Is this real to expect 3 foot waves in a lagoon that’s 900 
feet long and 200 feet wide?”  No, it’s impossible. 
 
But see, they’ve gone and done one thing.  Here’s the key 
ingredient.  They said, “A 3-foot wave,” and this is an old, 50s-style 
equation that’s empirical, “A wave will break when the water depth is four-
thirds the wave height.”  So when the water depth becomes four-thirds 
whatever height the wave is, the wave breaks.  It’s a mechanical problem.  
Okay, so what do four and three have to do with anything?  Well, they have 
a 3-foot wave; that’s why 4 feet of water was chosen to draw the line on 
 
 
 
98 
these maps, subject to editing with the obstacles -- which has never been 
done.  That’s where it stands. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Chairman, you now know why FEMA is 
not at this hearing. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Yes. (laughter) 
 
DR. FARRELL:  I may have said something that I may regret. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  No. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  But it’s still the truth. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  No, no, no.  Clearly-- the advisory flood-
base elevation maps are due out a year from now.  Clearly there’s a lot of 
confusion.  I feel for towns like Toms River and these other towns along the 
coastline who are trying to implement them.  But clearly there’s a lot of 
confusion on this, Senator Smith; you’re right.  There’s a lot of confusion.  
The towns don’t know how to implement them, apply them, or enforce 
them.  And homeowners are in the same predicament.  
 
So FEMA is going to have to play a role, as well as the DEP and 
the Administration because they’ve adopted them already.  And they’ve 
been adopted by executive order.  So at this point in time they are the rule 
of the land.  And there is going to be need--  Some rules are going to need 
to be promulgated quite quickly out of the DEP on how municipalities like 
Toms River and others could interpret these. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Well, I think the biggest place where changes 
will occur is in how far into the interior of the barrier island this coastal A 
zone is allowed to go; and will they demand a bayside barrier island ocean 
spit, here in northern Ocean County, V zone on the Bay side at all?  Is it a 
valid exercise when you have winds that blow from the ocean to the Bay?  If 
 
 
 
99 
there are going to be waves on the Bay they’re going to be hitting the 
mainland, not Chadwick Island. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  The dunes are critical here -- there is no 
doubt about it.  These dunes are very critical to protect -- whether it’s the 
barrier island or it’s part of the mainland.   
 
DR. FARRELL:  Well, we did--  We took a look at the all the 
dunes in all of New Jersey.  We did one of those awful things called an 
earmark, back in 2006, where we were tasked with what’s called Lidar data, 
which is digital elevation mapping of big swaths of the shoreline.  We put 
together--  We defined the dune, the seaward toe, the landward toe of the 
dune crest, and then we divided the shoreline up into 150-foot segments.   
So we basically got lot-and-block level analysis of where the dune will fail, 
when it will fail, and how well it will perform in these FEMA-rated storm 
levels.  And most of northern Ocean County, unfortunately, saw 90 percent 
dune erosion in a 10-year storm event.  And you can see all this on their--  I 
gave you the website; you can read all about it if you want to. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Dr. Farrell, thank you for your patience 
today.  Thank you for being with us.  And we’re going to want to hear from 
you again -- yourself and Dr. Miller.  The both of you have shed a lot of 
light on this subject matter, and clearly there is a long way to go here.  But 
we appreciate you being here today.  And we’re going to probably call you 
back at one point in time, in the future. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Thank you very much.  It was a pleasure. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  One question, Mr. Chairman. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Question? 
 
Senator Thompson. 
 
 
 
100 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Of course, we’re focusing here on 
the barrier islands and so on, etc.--  In my district we have Laurence Harbor 
and Cliffwood Beach, which is the Raritan Bay area.  And there, I don’t 
think they have dunes or so on. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Cliffwood Beach does have a pretty nice little 
dune.  It’s a park. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  They do have a dune in Cliffwood 
Beach? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Of course, they got hit pretty hard 
as it was, so I guess their dune wasn’t that good. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Well, it was.  It was a bayside dune.  They’re 
seldom 20 feet high. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  But a number of these areas -- now 
they are talking about V zones there in Laurence Harbor and Cliffwood 
Beach. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Yes.  Well, the fetch across Raritan Bay is as 
much as 12 miles from the northeast.  So you can generate a 5-foot high 
wave in a 12-mile fetch with an 80-knot wind.  So it’s possible to get--  But 
the real short period waves are just nasty when they’re right on your 
doorstep. 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Thank you. 
 
Former DEP Commissioner Mark Mauriello, now in the private 
sector as a consultant. 
 
 
 
101 
 
So Mark, you’ve heard a lot here today.  Why don’t you have 
an opportunity to kind of, for us -- some of the things that you’ve hear -- 
without criticizing any of our speakers--  But some of the questions we’ve 
asked, perhaps in your years of experience at the DEP -- fill in some of the 
blanks here. 
M A R K   N.   M A U R I E L L O:  I’d be happy to. 
 
As I told you outside, these remarks will stay folded up. 
 
Just a few points on some of the questions.  Senator Greenstein 
asked about this 100-year flood.  It’s being relooked at all the time.  Every 
time FEMA amends a map you notice the flood hazard areas get more 
expansive and the heights get higher.  So statistically, again, it’s all done 
because it’s an insurance program and it’s all based on statistical risk.  So 
that’s being done continuously. 
 
A few things that are a little bit of a concern.  I’m saying this 
not just as the former DEP guy; I’ve had a lot of experience at DEP in 
coastal management.  I’m a coastal resident my entire life.  And I work very 
actively with the New Jersey Association for Floodplain Management, which 
I founded about eight years ago.  But the concept of the acquisitions -- it’s a 
little bit of a concern to me to hear that we might wait until we get an 
entire neighborhood to consider buying vulnerable property, especially at a 
time when these properties -- many of them have been completely destroyed 
or damaged to the point of not being habitable.  Keep in mind that these 
homes didn’t appear in these hazard zones overnight; they were 
incrementally built and every time a home gets damaged, someone’s life is 
at risk, someone’s business gets disrupted and, ultimately and for the 
Budget Committee’s purpose, the taxpayers are subsidizing that risk.  So if 
 
 
 
102 
we can incrementally pull people out -- willing sellers; and there are willing 
sellers there now who you probably wouldn’t have heard from, from any 
other storm.  And I know because I’ve been out there and I’ve heard from 
these people.  People are looking for government to buy their property.  
They don’t want to be there.  I’m not saying everyone, and I’m not saying 
mandatory.  I’m saying for willing sellers who we can compensate and allow 
them to relocate out, we never have to go in and rescue those folks in a 
storm.  We don’t have to subsidize the recovery and the reconstruction with 
tax dollars.  Why wouldn’t we want to do that and start incrementally 
pulling back where we can? 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  And you’re saying that more for like 
people in Sayreville and some of these other areas that are prone to 
flooding, or are you talking about even people on the coastline, along the 
ocean? 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  I’m saying wherever you have high hazard 
areas where vulnerable properties exist and willing sellers want out, we 
should consider getting them out. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  In effect, what you’re sayingis that 
between the Cuomo model and the Christie model, the Cuomo model is 
superior.  We should get the properties while we can get them, as opposed 
to waiting until an entire neighborhood says yes as a group. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Exactly.  And it’s not a Cuomo/Christie-- 
I’ve been saying this for 25 years.  And we’ve successfully done this in New 
Jersey.  We’ve purchased properties in places like Whale Beach and Sea Isle 
City -- the northern end; it’s actually Upper Township.  We’ve used public 
 
 
 
103 
funds from the Shore Protection Fund to buy properties so that people 
didn’t put another house in a V zone that we know is going to get damaged, 
people are going to be at risk, and the taxpayers will ultimately assume the 
subsidization of that risk. 
 
So I think the idea of the acquisition--  I know some folks say, 
“We don’t want to go willy nilly, a house here or there.”  Strategically, if 
you concentrate on the most risky areas -- these V zones -- and you can 
incrementally pull back a little bit, you then have the opportunity to build 
the dunes that everyone says are really the most critical protection that we 
can find along the oceanfront. 
 
There are two ways to get that dune and beach that you want 
to be there: one is spend hundreds of millions of dollars of public money to 
put sand in the ocean, trying to get a shoreline to exist where it doesn’t 
want to exist.  Or you can incrementally pull back and get that beach and 
dune to be in those restored areas for the protection of the community.  
And, unfortunately, we don’t look at the long-term costs of these solutions.  
And if we were really true to ourselves and did a true cost-benefit analysis, 
it would clearly show that selectively pulling back -- again, not abandoning 
the island or running everybody out of their homes -- but selective 
relocation provides areas within which to build dunes and beaches at much 
less expense to the taxpayer over the long-term. 
 
So I feel very strongly about that as an acquisition issue. 
 
In terms of these advisory base flood elevation data that FEMA 
put out:  We heard testimony a lot about that, and Dr. Farrell talked about 
the elevations themselves being valid.  So in terms of the height, they’re 
valid.  The issue of this V zone designation on the back side of the barrier 
 
 
 
104 
islands is one that has not been vetted and is not, I would say, ready for 
prime time.  I do disagree a little bit with Dr. Farrell on that.  We did 
observe wave damage on the bay front of the barrier islands.  And that was 
literally from this huge surge of the storm -- when the wind switched, the 
water got pushed from west to east and actually did damage to structures.  
Whether those ultimate maps will have smaller V zone areas -- my guess is 
that they will.  I am sure that the ultimate maps will not have these 
expansive V zones throughout all these back sides like Chadwick Beach 
Island and many of these other communities. 
 
But the one thing--  And I’m not here to defend FEMA, but in 
FEMA’s defense on this issue, historically FEMA has underestimated the 
flood hazards in this state, and the result is people build houses that get 
flooded and get damaged.  And, again, the taxpayers are the ones who pay 
for it -- whether it’s disaster assistance, casualty loss deduction -- whatever it 
is, we’re the ones paying for it.  So FEMA is trying to be very conservative 
in putting this data out there and saying, “Look, if you’re going to rebuild 
in the areas we know will be subject to hazards and flooding, you should 
build them higher and build them stronger.”  And I can’t argue with that -- 
that philosophy.   
 
Their maps don’t factor in future conditions.  They don’t factor 
in sea level rise, which we know is real.  They don’t factor in continuing 
development in our watersheds that puts more water in our streams and 
raises the flood heights.  So my advice to anyone who has talked to me 
about should I elevate or not?  You should absolutely elevate, and it’s not 
just because you’re going to save money on flood insurance.  It’s so you can 
 
 
 
105 
sleep at night when you live in that house, and you’re not worried about 
your house being swept away and your family being threatened by damages. 
 
Another point--  You had asked about suggestions for legislative 
changes. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Yes. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  I feel very strongly--  I’ve had several 
conversations with Senator Smith.  In terms of the CAFRA statute -- which 
was enacted in 1973, it was amended in 1993 -- it’s a 20-year cycle.  Well, 
guess what?  We’re another 20 years down the road.  Two provisions I 
think we should seriously consider.  One is the elimination of this explicit 
right to rebuild.  Currently under the statute, if your house is destroyed by 
a storm you can rebuild it -- same place, location, size.  And I don’t know 
that that’s really in the best interest of everyone when you think of the fact 
that there’s no opportunity to look at whether rebuilding in that exact 
location is appropriate: is it safe, does it put the homeowner at risk, does it 
put the taxpayer at risk?  That’s something I think should be revisited. 
 
The other thing is, we talk about the recalcitrance of these 
homeowners who won’t sign easements for public shore protection projects.  
And that’s outrageous.  And I think you have great lawyers at your disposal, 
there are great lawyers as part of this Committee.  But if I could rewrite that 
statute, I would write a provision that gives the State the opportunity and 
the direction to condemn easements on all these oceanfront beaches.  
Condemn those easements and make those areas available for these public 
projects that protect the entire community.  I would argue that these 
homeowners are causing a nuisance.  If I lived behind one of these people, 
 
 
 
106 
they’re causing a nuisance.  They’re threatening my home and my family by 
holding out and not allowing a public project to go through. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Mark, the beach associations -- whether 
the towns--  The private beach associations that already have CAFRA 
permits, they sort of already are complying.  They’re almost there with the 
Army Corps of Engineer easements because they already have requirements 
to allow the public to access their beach.  They have to have a daily access 
plan.  They don’t have to provide parking or bathroom facilities, but those 
who have CAFRA permits, they are already sort of close to what the Army 
Corps of Engineers is looking for.  Am I correct in saying that? 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Not necessarily.  I mean, the CAFRA 
permit just authorizes certain beach work to take place.   
 
SENATOR SARLO:  There is an access component in the 
CAFRA permit. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  There is.  And I wouldn’t want to look at 
how well that’s being implemented and enforced, to be quite honest with 
you. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Okay. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  And I sat in the office that was responsible 
for doing that.  I say that seriously. 
 
The thing is that -- and we talked briefly about this earlier, 
Senator -- before the Corps was in the business of doing these projects, 
which are very costly, a lot of towns were doing this work based on 
guidelines that we adopted in the DEP rules 20 years ago.  These standards 
have existed for how big a dune should be, how you build a dune walkover 
structure so you don’t have these gaps in the dune; and it’s a little bit of a 
 
 
 
107 
concern to me -- and you highlighted it earlier, Senator, when you said, “Are 
we going to wait for the Corps to come in to northern Ocean County and 
do this?”  Look at the successes we’ve had in northern Ocean County: 
Berkeley Township, the Midway Beach section, Seaside Park, a large 
portion of the Borough of Lavallette. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Lavallette is a success story. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  We built those dunes using guidelines that 
DEP established, and I would hope these towns are running out there today 
using these established guidelines and successes to rebuild their dunes and 
not sitting back and waiting for the Federal government to come through 
and do that.  Because, quite frankly, it’s not going to provide the protection 
that they need now.  And there are low-cost solutions that we can apply 
between the setbacks and the dune restoration that really will, over the long 
term, provide the protection with much less burden on the taxpayers of the 
state. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Questions? 
 
Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
Hi, how are you? 
 
I just wanted to ask you:  In terms of the, I guess, philosophical 
statement that homeowners, perhaps, shouldn’t have the right to rebuild.  
What if a homeowner is willing to do it completely at private cost; there’s 
absolutely no public money involved-- if that’s even possible. Would you 
still feel that we should eliminate that right to rebuild? 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Senator, if I may.  I wasn’t suggesting that 
we prohibit them from rebuilding.  What I’m saying is that reconstruction 
 
 
 
108 
should be regulated pursuant to CAFRA.  I mean, the statute was intended 
and enacted to look at development in those hazardous areas.  My point is 
that it should not be an exempt activity, because the condition of the land 
may have changed sufficiently that it should require review.  
 
Now, on the other hand, if all homeowners assumed all risk at 
no cost, you might suggest, “Well, if you want to go it alone, go ahead,” but 
what we see, and what we’ve seen through these storm damages, houses get 
damaged, they damage other houses.  So unfortunately, we’re all in this 
together and it’s hard to really isolate the risk.  If we could do that, I would 
feel much more comfortable about saying, “You want to take the risk, don’t 
ask me to keep paying for it. We’ll buy you out once, get you out of there, 
and that’s fine.”  But to have to pay over and over again for repetitive 
damage I think is just unfair. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And then, the other question I 
would ask is, the maps that were put forth rather quickly -- obviously 
because people are in a rush to get some guidance here -- and then the 
Governor promulgated, I guess, the ordinance to carry it out--  Do you feel 
that those are going to -- that people should be able to depend on those?  I 
know they said it has the force of law, but it’s really a difficult situation 
because the whole comment period that FEMA would have gone through 
has not happened yet.  Things could change. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Right. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  What should a homeowner do?  
And I guess that was asked of other earlier speakers. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Yes.  In the cases where the issue is just 
elevating the home to a higher elevation, I would tell any homeowner they 
 
 
 
109 
should do it.  In the case of these new V zones where the requirements 
don’t just involve elevation, they involve new foundation types -- pilings -- 
that’s where it’s creating a problem.  And that article captured it.  It’s a cost 
problem and it’s a logistical problem in that there aren’t enough contractors 
who can do the work. 
 
I would hope that people take advantage of funding through 
their flood insurance.  It’s called increased cost of compliance.  Homeowners are 
eligible for a $30,000 grant to help with that.  I would hope that some of 
this-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  First home though? 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  What’s that? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Not for a non-primary structure, correct? 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Correct.  I’m sorry -- yes. 
 
Also with this funding, I would hope that funds brought back 
to the State would go to help people meet those elevation requirements.  
But, quite frankly, that V zone issue is tough in some of these 
neighborhoods.  I’ve had a lot of people say, “I’m just going to wait it out.  
I’m going to wait and see what that map ultimately says.”   
 
One point that I’d like to raise, and I haven’t gotten 
clarification on this, but the emergency rule -- the order -- does not mention 
V zone at all in the order.  And I have asked the question now three times 
and have yet to get an answer as to whether it just requires the elevation 
standard, or if it also requires this foundation standard in the V zone.  And 
it’s an important distinction.  Whenever something is missing, I don’t 
assume that someone forgot to include it.  So I think it would behoove all 
of us to get an answer to that from the Department as to whether that 
 
 
 
110 
emergency order that was adopted includes a requirement to elevate on pile 
foundations in these newly mapped V zones.  It would have been very easy 
to refer to the V zone construction standard along with the elevation 
standard.  And it is very clear that elevation standards are part of that. 
 
So I wish I knew the answer to that but, Senator, I think for 
those folks in the Chadwick Beach Island scenario and some of these back 
sides of the barrier islands, they may wind up just waiting to see.  Because it 
is a costly thing and, ultimately, if it’s not adopted then they would have 
expended a lot of money for something that really was not necessary. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  And let’s not forget we’re focusing a lot on 
the coastal -- the barrier island.  But there are areas and properties around 
the Passaic Valley Sewage Commission that got damaged, and Little Ferry, 
Moonachie -- a lot of areas -- Middlesex, Sayreville-- 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Right. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  There are a lot of areas that got wiped 
out, that were heavily damaged by the surge, that are in the same 
predicament with these flood elevation maps. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Right.  And those are areas that, quite 
frankly, don’t get enough attention -- Woodbridge, Sayreville, the upper 
Raritan Bay.  And you talk about Newark, Jersey City, Hoboken.  The 
problems are significant up there, and the options are far less in a place like 
Hoboken than they are in a place like Dover Township, where you have the 
room to move.  You can elevate a home.  You’re not going to elevate a block 
of row houses in Hoboken. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Yes, the quote--  There’s a woman here on 
the front page of the Record from Moonachie -- Joanne Van Saders -- who is 
 
 
 
111 
still not in her home.  Her quote is, “Do my husband and I have to rebuild 
our home?  Do I spend $100,000 to raise it?  Is my flood insurance going to 
go up $30,000?  Common sense tells me that none of this makes sense at 
all.  I don’t have the money for any of it.” 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  It’s a tough situation.  But one thing that 
it illustrates in that part of the state -- and I know that’s your home turf -- is 
that reliance on these berms and levees is a little bit foolish.  And it’s 
unfortunate people get this sense of security because they live behind a 
berm and they think they’re protected. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Well, I think they’re all realizing that 
there’s no such thing as an “engineered berm” or dune-- 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Engineered anything. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  There’s nothing. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Look at Monmouth Beach and Sea Bright.  
It’s the most engineered shoreline we have in the state.  The seawall--  That 
beach has been renourished probably 10 times at a cost of many, many 
millions of dollars.  And it probably had the worst damage in Monmouth 
County.  So it’s important to remember that. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Thank you, Mark, and we look forward to 
hearing from you more in the future.  And thank you for trying to fill some 
of these gaps.  I appreciate it. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  I appreciate the opportunity. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Okay, our final two speakers--  I’m just 
going to have Senator Greenstein chair for a moment here because I have to 
step out and make a phone call.  We’re going to ask Clint Andrews from the 
Bloustein Center for Green Building to come up; and is Chris Sturm from 
 
 
 
112 
New Jersey Future still with us?  Okay.  Chris, you could come up.  And 
then after--  We’ll let Dr. Andrews go first and then (indiscernible). 
 
So, Dr. Andrews, you patiently have waited here.  You’ve heard 
from folks who’ve been on the ground -- the folks from Toms River, the 
folks dealing with the private owners.  You’ve heard from academic experts.  
You heard from the Army Corps of Engineers.  What do you make of all of 
this?  What direction should we be heading in here? 
C L I N T O N   J.   A N D R E W S,   Ph.D.:  Well, I don’t presume to 
give you advice on that.  But I do have a couple of thoughts that really draw 
from my experience as a planning and policy researcher.   
 
And there’s some written testimony, which I won’t go through 
except to highlight a couple of issues that have come up when I’ve talked 
about, what should planners be doing and what should the planners be 
asking the State Legislature to do in the short run and in the long run, as 
we go forward. 
 
And part of this is reminding ourselves that this should all be 
about the future and not reliving the past.  And so what that means is that, 
in the short run, there is a challenge that our well-meaning regulatory 
structures have put us into that we need to address.  And one example is 
something that we heard a little bit about already, which is that we end up 
telling people to elevate their homes but then having height restrictions that 
limit the ability to do so.  There are a number of other things like that 
hidden in our zoning ordinances that are basically paralyzing anyone’s 
ability to act, because every one of those variances has to go through a local 
board -- which can’t even meet in many cases because people aren’t around.  
And so it feels like there’s something that needs to be done to help these 
 
 
 
113 
overwhelmed local boards, and State funding to unchoke that process might 
be worthwhile. 
 
There’s a related issue which gets into what each profession 
thinks they own in the regulatory process, and that has to do with 
measuring:  “What is that base flood elevation anyway?  How high is my 
house above the mean water level?”  And this is something that, right now, 
homeowners and towns are required to turn to professional surveyors when, 
in fact, we have an awful lot of GPS and Lidar data that is widely available, 
and the GIS professionals could also be doing similar work to expedite 
another bottleneck. 
 
And then a final short-term thing that I want to mention is that 
there is an instinct among many of us to rebuild exactly what was there -- to 
get back to life as it was.  And that’s clearly not going to work; life is 
different than it was.  And yet communities are having trouble having that 
conversation.  And so I think there could be a role for a State-funded grant 
program to try to get some visioning activities going within the towns and 
to have those communities, whose leadership wants to encourage that kind 
of a discussion, do so. 
 
For the longer run, I’m finding myself in the unpopular position 
of saying we ought to be listening to FEMA a little bit more.  And that 
comes from first hearing Tony Broccoli describe how relying on the past 50 
years isn’t a great prediction of what the next 50 years is going to bring; and 
acknowledging that FEMA regularly updates its maps.  This isn’t a one-time 
event.  This is something that happens every so often, and we should expect 
a moving baseline, in other words.  And we should be encouraging people to 
think about not what’s the minimum that the map says, but what is a 
 
 
 
114 
reasonable expectation for where I should be rebuilding and whether I 
should be rebuilding. 
 
And this plea for trying to bring the best science and the best 
engineering to the process does run up against a very powerful political 
obstacle -- which involves the desire of municipal officials to keep their 
ratable base and to be able to balance their budgets in the short run.  And 
it’s an understandable concern, clearly.   But it also should not be overruling 
the long-term objectives of encouraging people to rebuild in the places 
where it makes sense and discouraging them in other places. 
 
There’s another part of the politics which I think is difficult to 
talk about and difficult to bear, but undeniable.  And that is really that 
there are some people who are going to be able to afford to rebuild to meet 
the new standards, and others who will not be able to afford to do that.  
And over the past couple of hundred years we’ve gone from having disaster 
management and response be an entirely local activity, to the case today 
where State and Federal governments play very big roles.  And as part of 
that we managed to put a few perverse incentives in place that encourage 
risk taking.  And so I think we -- and really you, as legislators -- have that 
challenge of trying to find that balance of discouraging risk taking without 
acting in an inhumane way. 
 
Now, this is something that plays out differently in different 
parts of the Jersey Shore.  A lot of the barrier island communities are, in 
fact, largely seasonal, second homes.  And anyone who has a second home 
probably is not going to be discouraged from getting their oceanfront view if 
they can afford to rebuild.  And we should let them, but just make sure that 
they don’t expect any help. 
 
 
 
115 
 
There are other places, and I see this especially in the 
Monmouth County bay shore towns, where these are poor communities; 
they live on thin margins, houses are only there because they were 
grandfathered in, essentially, and the tax base also depends on them 
because these are the year-round residents.  And basically, from a fiscal 
impact point of view, a summer home is a great ratable -- lots of revenues, 
few expenses.  In the bay shore communities, those homes bring both 
revenues and expenses, so in those areas it’s actually--  We’ve been doing 
some calculations.  I’ve had a group of students working through this for 
three bay shore communities.  We’ve been seeing that if we go slowly on 
rebuilding, and allow some buyouts, and discourage rebuilding exactly in 
harm’s way, that municipal revenues decrease but municipal expenditures 
decrease even more.  And so for many of those poorer communities -- the 
year-round communities -- the fiscal argument, I don’t think, really carries 
weight in the long run. 
 
So those are some observations I have.  And my sense is that we 
need to encourage a little more preparation for what we know is a riskier 
future on the shore.  But that it’s going to have to vary a little bit by 
community.  And so that suggests getting the superstructure in place at the 
State level, and then allowing a lot of autonomy in how it gets carried out. 
 
Why don’t I stop there and see if there are any questions. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much. 
 
Questions? (no response) 
 
Okay, well, thank you.  We really appreciate it. 
 
And next is Chris Sturm, New Jersey Future. 
C H R I S   S T U R M:  Yes, hi. 
 
 
 
116 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Next and last. 
 
MS. STURM:  Next and last. 
 
Thank you for inviting New Jersey Future to speak to you 
today.  I passed out my PowerPoint presentation.  I’m going to skip over 
some of the introductory stuff.  You’ve been here a long time. 
 
But I wanted to just, first, point out that there’s some great 
polling that’s been done that shows the public is really supportive of 
thoughtful rebuilding activities -- done by the Monmouth Polling Institute. 
 
I want to highlight two approaches for smart rebuilding that are 
going to work and make sense over the long run.  One, is just looking at 
opportunities to attach strings to the public spending.  Make sure that the 
right criteria are in place.  And the second is to integrate the rebuilding 
activities with existing government decision making.  Because that’s going 
on; that’s going to go on in the future.  And if you ignore it you’re less likely 
to be successful. 
 
There are some things I think you can poach.  New Jersey 
almost had a new State plan; the Christie Administration proposed a State 
Strategic Plan that it was going to adopt in November, and at the very last 
minute pulled it off the agenda because they wanted to make sure it 
addressed the storm and rebuilding.  It’s ironic in a way, because now that 
we’re going to be spending these billions of dollars we need a strategic 
approach and framework more than ever.   
 
But if we can’t have the full plan, I think there are some good 
things in there that the Legislature could promote.  One is a set of values -- 
Garden State values to guide rebuilding, to make sure that what we’re 
getting is equitable for everybody, including the people who can’t afford to 
 
 
 
117 
rebuild, who Cliff was talking about.  That it’s more resilient, going forward, 
in the face of rising of sea levels and extreme weather.  And that we’re 
getting the biggest bang for our buck in terms of walkable communities, 
better transportation, and so forth. 
 
The second thing that the State Strategic Plan proposed was 
having the State agencies each prepare implementation plans to show how 
they were going to change their business of regulating, and planning, and 
spending to reach the goals of the plan.  That mandate could be revised to 
ask the agencies to prepare implementation plans for how they’re going to 
do rebuilding; and they could be presented to the State Planning 
Commission for public comment.  There is not enough public dialogue on 
shore rebuilding at the State level.  And certainly the State Planning 
Commission is one potential body that could provide for that kind of 
venue. 
 
At the regional level, Mark Mauriello touched on the 
opportunity to update the CAFRA statute, which is long overdue.  The 
CAFRA statute created a Shore Protection Fund, and then said those 
monies had to be spent according to the Shore Protection master plan -- 
which embodied the latest sciences of 1981 on dune widths and so forth.  
That plan is over three decades out-of-date.  Senator Van Drew has 
introduced legislation which -- the text isn’t released yet, but that would 
update that plan.  That makes sense.  We shouldn’t be spending all this 
money without incorporating scientific understanding and a regional look at 
how to do it best. 
 
There has been talk about a Coastal Commission and what that 
would offer New Jersey residents.  I think it provides a way to bring the best 
 
 
 
118 
resources to bear on this region -- which is really unique in New Jersey -- to 
take the scientific understanding and put it in the format that 
municipalities can take advantage of.  We’ve got great examples of regional 
planning in the Pinelands, Highlands, and Meadowlands.  Those all try to 
advance goals set by the Legislature.  A Coastal Commission would have 
different goals: promoting tourism, commercial fishing, as well as resilience 
and other things.  So that’s something to look into. 
 
At the county level in New Jersey we have every county just 
about ready to formally adopt sewer service areas, which provides a great 
baseline for development.  We have 15 counties updating their hazard 
mitigation plans right now.  We have one county which has adopted a new 
map of growth in preservation areas pursuant to the State Development and 
Redevelopment Plan, or the new strategic plan.  Those things should be 
integrated.  Our hazard mitigation plans need to address where we grow:  
are we pulling back, are we developing more intensely in good locations,   
and so forth. 
 
When counties do that work, it really helps their towns that 
don’t have the same staff capacity or GIS sophistication.  So it’s important 
that counties do it in an integrated fashion.  When we go down to the 
municipal level, municipalities should really be either required or strongly 
encouraged, or sort of bribed, I guess, if you will, to update their master 
plans, to recognize this new reality of rising sea levels and hazards.  And to 
also adopt a hazard mitigation element, especially if they’re accepting State 
and Federal money for rebuilding. 
 
They should be given some funds to make the necessary zoning 
changes, as well as to update their stormwater management plans.  The 
 
 
 
119 
world has changed a lot since the mid-2000s when the stormwater 
management rule was adopted.  We know a lot--  We’ve seen tremendous 
flooding.  We know a lot more about green infrastructure approaches that 
can complement gray infrastructure at a lower cost.  But that costs money, 
and so towns should be given money to do that as well.   
 
And they should also be funded to update their capital 
investment plans so that the planning is reflected in the local spending. 
 
There is some other legislation that you have before you that’s 
been introduced that I think can help.  This is just sort of a hodgepodge, 
but a few sort of low-hanging fruit.  Redevelopment is a tool that some 
towns can use to rebuild.  But when they do, it raises the specter of eminent 
domain, which sets everyone’s teeth on edge.  There’s a bill, A3615, which 
would allow towns to designate what’s called a non-condemnation redevelopment 
area where eminent domain is not even an option.  And so it makes it easier 
to move forward with redevelopment without raising local fears. 
 
Senator Smith has introduced legislation that would allow New 
Jersey to catch up with its neighboring states New York and Pennsylvania in 
authorizing stormwater utilities so that we can begin to manage our 
stormwater better to address flooding -- especially our urban areas with 
combined sewer overflows.  Places like Hoboken and Jersey City are really 
going to suffer economically if they can’t have access to these tools.  The 
Governor has not supported it, but we need to find a way to break through 
that opposition, whether it’s through pilots or something else. 
 
And finally, back to the land preservation that Mark Mauriello 
was talking about.  Certainly we need funding for buyouts through Green 
Acres and Blue Acres programs.  There are also planning tools that towns 
 
 
 
120 
can use that can allow for preservation without public funding.  And a bill, 
A3761, has been introduced to improve cluster development tools.  It’s 
broadly supported by the builders, the League of Municipalities, Farm 
Bureau, and so forth.  I hope you all will support that bill. 
 
Transfer of development rights is a great tool, as you both 
know.  That can be streamlined.  And we’d be happy to talk to you about 
how to do that. 
 
Finally, I just want to make you aware of some resources at 
New Jersey Future.  We are hiring a local recovery manager, in concert with 
FEMA, to work in a shore community to help them access government 
funds and figure out how to spend those funds well at the local level.  And 
we’re hoping to get some private foundation funding to hire more of those 
folks. 
 
We also have a number of reports on our website, and we are 
otherwise interested in supporting you all as you move forward. 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Questions? 
 
Bob, I think. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Just one on the Coastal Commission. 
 
Do you envision a Coastal Commission with land use 
regulatory powers? 
 
MS. STURM:  I mean, in a perfect world, that’s what we would 
have.  What would still be a big step forward would be a Coastal 
Commission that was primarily a resource, that could pull together the 
research--  You know, how do we build things on stilts and have 
communities that work, for example?  What are the impacts of rising sea 
 
 
 
121 
levels on these ABFEs, and what should towns really be planning for?  
Advising towns on how to deal with the V zones; where do they make sense 
and where do they need adjustment?  So if nothing else, that would be 
helpful.  But we would prefer to see a stronger model. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  With regards to these flood base 
elevations -- the advisory flood base elevations -- this is sort of new territory 
here for us, with adopting--  We’ve adopted them; essentially, they’ve been 
adopted via executive order.  So they’ve been adopted.  FEMA has yet to 
issue--  Could FEMA modify these any further?   Could you see FEMA 
modifying these any further, based upon engineering, public outcry?  I 
mean, at this point in time, do they get modified any further? 
 
DR. ANDREWS:  I think they should be expected to change 
them a little bit more in this current round.  But then we’re going to have 
another round in a few years, and so this is--  It’s their right, and we want 
them to do it.  We want them to tell us where the risks are.  And so I’d say 
of course they’re going to be fine-tuning this round over the next year.  And 
my expectation is that the executive order will eventually be displaced by 
something else that’s more formal and/or fully thought through. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  One final question:  Other areas have 
been damaged and ravaged by storms along coastlines.  Now, New Jersey’s 
unique:  We have 567 municipalities; everybody independently acts as their 
own little authority and agency and planning agency.  In some of these 
other states was the rebuilding effort -- was it smoother when there was one 
authority dictating or authorizing how the rebuilding effort should be 
implemented? 
 
 
 
122 
 
DR. ANDREWS:  What I have heard from colleagues in other 
parts of the country is the answer is no.  And it has to do with the fact that 
even if you have one larger area, you still have the same political battle.  
You still have the same interests that have to fight it out and figure out who 
is getting what.  Are we rebuilding casinos or housing?  Are we protecting 
this stretch of the Mississippi or that stretch?  And so, in that sense, I don’t 
think it’s any harder here.  What’s a little bit more of a challenge is that 
we’ve carefully distributed decision making so that we have a lot more 
coordinating to do.  And in a way it’s the same challenge that we’ve seen 
with land use planning in New Jersey, where we’ve-- 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  We have a lot of chiefs. 
 
DR. ANDREWS:  Exactly.  But realistically, it’s a private real 
estate market and every homeowner is a chief.  And so this is a situation 
where regulation is, at best, kind of a signal of where we see the public 
interest lying.  But, in fact, it plays out homeowner by homeowner by 
homeowner. 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  And I think -- and we said this earlier -- I 
mean, there are a lot of communities, Bob, that--  There is no focus on a lot 
of these other communities like Woodbridge and Sayreville and Moonachie.  
They’re sort of getting--  We all focus on the tourism industry, the beaches, 
the glitter.  It’s great to talk about the beaches.  As I said before, it’s sexy to 
talk about the beaches and the glitter; whereas a lot of these other areas, 
these towns that were devastated -- you just hope they don’t get forgotten 
in this process. 
 
DR. ANDREWS:  Yes. 
 
 
 
123 
 
SENATOR SARLO:  Thank you.  Thank you for being here and 
thank you for your patience today. 
 
We are adjourned and we will see everybody back in Trenton. 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
