 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
ASSEMBLY ENVIRONMENT AND SOLID WASTE COMMITTEE 
 
"Testimony on the progress of Hurricane Sandy recovery efforts" 
 
LOCATION: 
Atlantic City Convention Center 
Atlantic City, New Jersey 
DATE: 
August 15, 2013 
11:00 a.m. 
 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEES PRESENT: 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice Chair 
Senator Jim Whelan 
Senator Christopher "Kip" Bateman 
 
Assemblywoman L. Grace Spencer, Chair 
Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, Vice Chair 
Assemblyman Upendra J. Chivukula 
Assemblyman John F. Amodeo 
Assemblywoman Holly T. Schepisi 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Judith L. Horowitz 
 
 
 
Eugene Lepore 
 
Brian Alpert 
Michael Molimock 
 
 
 
Senate Majority  
 
Senate Republican 
Carrie Anne Calvo-Hahn 
 
 
Christopher Pierre 
 
Thea M. Sheridan 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
 
Assembly Majority 
 
Assembly Republican 
Committee Aides 
 
 
 
Committee Aides 
 
Committee Aides 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
Lorenzo T. Langford 
Mayor 
City of Atlantic City 
2 
 
Stewart Farrell, Ph.D. 
Director and Founder 
Coastal Research Center 
The Richard Stockton College of New Jersey 
6 
 
Mark N. Mauriello 
Director 
Environmental Affairs and Planning 
Edgewood Properties 
17 
 
Maryann Flanigan, Esq. 
Staff Attorney 
Legal Services of New Jersey 
29 
 
Sonia Daley (phonetic spelling) 
Private Citizen 
33 
 
Staci Berger 
Executive Director 
Housing and Community Development Network of New Jersey 
41 
 
Simone Dannecker 
Private Citizen 
45 
 
Lee Ann Newland 
Private Citizen 
55 
 
Linda G. Steele 
President 
Atlantic City Chapter 
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
62 
 
Steven L. Young 
Representing 
Atlantic City Chapter 
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
67 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
APPENDIX (continued): 
Page 
 
Kevin D. Walsh 
Associate Director 
Fair Share Housing Center 
72 
 
Tim Dillingham 
Executive Director 
American Littoral Society 
82 
 
Nicholas Russo 
Mayor 
Borough of Longport 
91 
 
Lauren Townsend 
Consultant 
US Strong 
93 
 
David Pringle 
Campaign Director 
New Jersey Environmental Federation 
95 
 
Ciro A. Scalera 
Director 
Government Relations 
New Jersey Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust 
Laborers International Union of North America 
96 
 
Molly Greenberg 
Environmental Programs Coordinator 
Ironbound Community Corporation 
97 
 
Cassandra R. Shober 
Private Citizen 
101 
 
Jeff Tittel 
Director 
New Jersey Chapter 
Sierra Club 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Page 
 
Janice Selinger 
Communications Coordinator 
Safer After Sandy 
New Jersey Work Environment Council 
104 
 
Michael F. Johnson 
Private Citizen 
106 
 
Victoria L. Phillips 
Executive Director 
Mental Health Association in Atlantic County 
Mental Health Association in New Jersey 
107 
 
Roderick Scott 
Representing 
Baumgardner House Lifting 
111 
 
Debbie Mans 
Baykeeper and Executive Director 
NY/NJ Baykeeper 
113 
 
Karen S. Lane 
Vice President 
Local 827 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 
115 
 
Wayne D. DeFeo 
Vice Chairman 
New Jersey Chapter 
U.S. Green Building Council 
117 
 
George Kasimos 
Private Citizen 
118 
 
Dennis Elwell 
Sandy Recovery Program Associate 
The Intersect Fund 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Page 
 
Jim Rutala 
Principal 
Rutala Associates 
123 
 
Anthony Lombardo 
Representing 
Save Barnegat Bay 
126 
 
Tom Fote 
Chair 
Legislative Committee 
Jersey Coast Anglers Association 
128 
 
Loretta J. Dibble 
Legislative and Policy Representative 
Manufactured Homeowners Association of New Jersey, Inc. 
129 
 
Bill Wolfe 
Director 
New Jersey Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility 
132 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
PowerPoint presentation 
submitted by 
Stewart Farrell, Ph.D. 
1x 
 
Statement 
submitted by 
Maryann Flanigan, Esq. 
16x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Staci Berger 
28x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Lee Ann Newland 
30x 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
APPENDIX (continued): 
Page 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Tim Dillingham 
33x 
 
Testimony, plus maps 
submitted by 
Lauren Townsend 
43x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Janice Selinger 
47x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Michael F. Johnson 
48x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Victoria L. Phillips 
49x 
 
Statement 
submitted by 
Roderick Scott 
51x 
 
Testimony, plus map 
submitted by 
Debbie Mans 
52x 
 
Statement 
submitted by 
Karen S. Lane 
55x 
 
Testimony, plus attachments 
submitted by 
Wayne D. DeFeo 
66x 
 
 
88x 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
APPENDIX (continued): 
Page 
 
Fact sheet 
submitted by 
Dennis Elwell 
88x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Jim Rutala 
89x 
 
Testimony 
submitted 
Mark N. Mauriello 
91x 
 
rs:1-93 
pnf:-94-140 
 
 
 
 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  Good morning, everyone, 
and welcome to the two most interesting committees in the Legislature: the 
Assembly 
Environment 
and 
Solid 
Waste 
Committee 
headed 
by 
Chairwoman Grace Spencer, and the Senate Environment and Energy 
Committee headed by myself.  That is how I start every meeting of the 
Committee, because we really are the most interesting committees. 
 
That being said, we’re thrilled to be in Atlantic City today, 
taking testimony on the status of relief efforts 10 months after Storm 
Sandy.  And we’ve asked people to come today to tell us what they 
understand to be happening in their world; what’s been done right, what’s 
been done wrong.  And hopefully if there are needs for mid-course 
corrections, we can either do legislation or try to get input into the 
Administration about this, which has pretty much been the overseer of 
Storm Sandy relief efforts. 
 
We invited Marc Ferzan, the Governor’s Sandy czar, to be here 
today.  He has not indicated a willingness to come.  So we’re going to hear 
from a whole bunch of other people.  We have a list that is longer than the 
Atlantic City Expressway.  And we do have to put limits on things, so 
Chairwoman Spencer and I agreed we would take testimony until 1:45, at 
which point the hearing will end.  We’re going to try to get as many people 
up as possible.  Let me give you Shakespeare’s admonition: brevity is the 
soul of wit.  If you have written testimony -- Senators and Assembly people 
really do read it.  If you bring it up, copies will be made for all members.  
And if you then want to summarize it, that would be just perfect. 
 
1 
 
 
 
Before we introduce the members of our Committee, our home 
Senator for Atlantic City is Senator Jim Whelan, who is the former Mayor 
of Atlantic City. 
 
Assemblywoman Spencer and I ask if you would welcome the 
local officials to welcome us. 
 
Senator. 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman, to you and 
to Chairwoman Spencer. 
 
We are -- and I say “we” -- I speak for people from the shore 
communities up and down, especially here in Atlantic City, Atlantic 
County.  We are very grateful to both of you for having this.  It is great that 
we have “Stronger than the storm,” and so on, and so forth.  But the reality 
is, for so many people who live at the Jersey Shore, they’re not back in their 
homes yet.  If they are back in their homes, they’re still dealing with issues 
in their homes, cost of repairs that are ongoing.  It is the same thing for 
many people in our business community.  So we are very, very grateful.  I 
was one of the fortunate ones.  We were out until March.  We got back in, 
but there is still a lot of confusion.  So, again, we thank you and 
Assemblywoman Spencer for this. 
 
Let me introduce the Mayor of Atlantic City to come and give a 
welcome, and also, perhaps, a little bit of an overview of what he sees taking 
place in Atlantic City. 
 
Mayor Langford. 
 
Thank you, Mayor. 
M A Y O R   L O R E N Z O   L A N G F O R D:  Good afternoon, 
everyone. 
 
2 
 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good afternoon. 
 
MAYOR LANGFORD:  Thank you, Senator Whelan. 
 
To Senator -- Mr. Chairman -- Bob Smith and to the esteemed 
panel, thank you so much for bringing this forum -- this meeting to the 
great City of Atlantic City and providing all of us with an opportunity to 
interact and interface with you, and to have this very important discussion. 
 
Let me also say thank you to the residents of Atlantic City who 
have taken the time to come here this morning to share their concerns and 
to benefit from the information that will be gathered here today. 
 
I do have some City officials who I’d like to acknowledge: Bill 
England, our City Engineer; Nancy Egrie, of Risk Management; and Tom 
Foley, our Emergency Management director.  They will be here to offer 
some commentary should they so choose, but more importantly to hear the 
discussion that will take place -- particularly anything coming from the 
residents of the City of Atlantic City -- that we might take that information 
and get back to them with a satisfactory answer and direction in which they 
should go to pursue the answer that they might need. 
 
So with that, let me just pick up on something that the Senator 
alluded to.  And I will be brief.  I think all of us would do well, here in the 
City of Atlantic City, to understand that our glass is half full and not half 
empty.  As catastrophic as this storm was, it could have been a lot worse.  
While we can calculate the toll and the expense in terms of dollars, in a 
monetary kind of way, there was no loss of human life in the City of 
Atlantic City.  And for that I am grateful. 
 
I also need to, at this time, give thanks to all of the agencies -- 
governmental agencies from the Federal government, State government, 
 
3 
 
 
County government, quasi-governmental entities such as the CRDA, and 
other social organizations and religious institutions for their willingness to 
band together to help get us out of this mess.  And the collaboration, and 
cooperation, and assistance has been absolutely phenomenal.  And as the 
Mayor of Atlantic City, I want to take this opportunity to say thank you to 
all who have had anything and everything to do with trying to restore us as 
quickly and as fully as humanly possible. 
 
Having said that, however, as the Senator alluded to, we still 
have a lot of our residents here in the City of Atlantic City who have not 
been relocated back into their humble abodes.  They have not been fully 
restored.  So I would only ask that we keep that in mind.  As we celebrate 
on the one hand the successes that have been made thus far, we need to be 
mindful that we still have a ways to go. 
 
So having said that, again, thank you for affording me this 
opportunity.  Thank you for inviting me.  And, again, thank you for 
bringing this meeting to the City of Atlantic City. 
 
God bless. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mayor. 
 
Quick introduction on the Senate side.  We have Senator 
Whelan, Senator Linda Greenstein is on her way but said she would be late, 
and we also expect Senator Bateman to be here.  I don’t think Senator Beck 
is going to be available. 
 
Chairwoman Spencer. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN L. GRACE SPENCER (Chair):  Good 
morning, and thank you for coming and being a part of this joint hearing.  
Certainly, we are here to take the testimony and hear what it is that is 
 
4 
 
 
happening to the communities on the ground level.  There are many things 
that we read about in the newspaper, but sometimes what is contained in 
the paper is not exactly accurate about what is happening with the people 
who have suffered through the crisis.  So we’re glad that you’re here.  And 
certainly the agencies that are represented, and the different organizations 
that are here--  I expect and hope to find from you -- get from you 
information that we will be able to use in order to make sure that every 
citizen who suffered some kind of loss as a result of Hurricane Sandy -- 
regardless of whether you’re on the shore or whether you’re in Bergen 
County, New Jersey -- no matter where you are in the state, that you are 
getting the services, the money, and the help that you need in order to put 
your lives back together. 
 
With me from the New Jersey State Assembly -- there are 
several members who are going to be present.  They’re running a little 
behind schedule.  You know, New Jersey, as small as we are, it’s difficult to 
go from one end of the state to the other.  But we will be joined by several 
members.  Right now, we have Assemblyman John Amodeo, who represents 
District 2.  I expect to have Assemblywoman Holly Schepisi, who represents 
District 39; Upendra Chivukula, who Chairs the Assembly Utilities 
Committee, from District 17; and my Vice Chair Reed Gusciora, from 
District 15.  Also joining the New Jersey Assembly here today are 
representatives who assist the Committee: Thea Sheridan, Christopher 
Pierre, and Carrie Anne Calvo. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We have a long list.  And as I said, we 
hope that everyone can be succinct. 
 
5 
 
 
 
Our first witness is Dr. Stewart Farrell, from Stockton College 
Coastal Research Center. 
 
For those of you who have followed our proceedings, Dr. Farrell 
was the individual who, at our hearing in Toms River many, many months 
ago, when asked the question whether we should be -- I guess find credible 
the V Zone designation for much of the shore, indicated that maybe that 
needed an additional review; that, that, in fact, had not been thoroughly 
vetted.  And as we may all know, in many parts of New Jersey, that V Zone 
has been changed.  So many homeowners began rebuilding their homes at 
heights that are no longer applicable.  And there may be some question 
about reimbursement.  And also, too--  I have a second home in Lavallette, 
and we’re almost back.  But if you go on our street, you see these Cape 
Cods that have been now raised up 12 feet that look like abominations. 
 
And with that introduction, Dr. Farrell, take it away. 
S T E W A R T   F A R R E L L,   Ph.D.:  Well, thank you very much.  
It’s a pleasure to be here. 
 
I did put my comments together as a PowerPoint.  And since I 
finished it at 9:00 this morning, I will send Mr. Lepore a PDF version to be 
distributed to Committee members as he finds it possible to do so.  My 
apologies for not doing that ahead of time. 
 
I was asked to focus on what has happened in Cape-Atlantic 
counties primarily, since that is where we are.  The intro slide there to the 
left is the national vertical datum of tide gauges in the Bay showing 
Hurricane Sandy rising to an elevation of about 8.5 feet above the 
NAVD88 datum, and then fading back to normal over the next two or three 
days -- obviously the vehicle on the right.  And then the center picture is the 
 
6 
 
 
Ventnor fishing pier taken this past March.  So, in fact, some of the beaches 
are just fine.  Most of them are usable, no matter where you are.  And many 
of them -- you’d hardly notice that anything really happened on the 
physical beach. 
 
We take this information from our profile network, which we 
established in 1986 at the behest of the events following Hurricane Gloria 
through the, then, Coastal Resources Division of DEP.  We established 105 
locations approximately a mile apart, from Sandy Hook and some in 
Raritan Bay, down to Cape May Point, and up the west coast of the Cape 
May County-Delaware Bay shoreline. 
 
So each of these sites were visited from October 31, 2012 to 
Thanksgiving.  We worked 24/7 to get surveys of these beaches after Sandy 
to see what the erosion had been.  Now, this will not appear as huge 
numbers for the public to see (indicating).  But in Atlantic County, taking 
that loss in beach dune and offshore material -- the sand lost and shed -- 
and averaging the two adjacent profiles, and multiplying by the distance in 
between them -- it’s called closed-end averaging.  We went the length of 
Atlantic County, and we found that about 850,000 cubic yards of material 
had been removed as a result of the Hurricane.  Well, that is asymmetrically 
distributed, as we found out.  Some places lost more, others less.  This is the 
Rhode Island Avenue cross section.  The green line at the top was the 
September profile after the Army Corps of Engineers pumped sand there -- 
which was very fortuitous for that whole section of Atlantic City, because if 
you look at the line from the very first profile in 2011, the high tide line 
was just at the Boardwalk.  And had that been the case in Hurricane Sandy, 
Revel development might have been put at severe risk from overwash and 
 
7 
 
 
direct wave impact on the structure.  That did not occur.  Because the 
Sandy profile is imbedded in the black line showing that after Sandy -- the 
last one was in December -- there was very little change after Sandy.  Not 
much material returned to the shoreline.  But the dunes survived, and the 
beach was severely compromised and is being restored by the Army Corps, 
either as we speak or is to be done this fall. 
 
So the projects that the Army Corps built prior to Sandy are 
going to be restored to their design specifications as soon as the contractors 
can get to them.  And they’ve done Stone Harbor, they’ve done Cape May, 
they’ve done Atlantic City, and they probably have some work to do in 
Brigantine, which they had done prior to the storm, again, fortuitously. 
 
All right, coming south to Raleigh Avenue, in Atlantic City--  
The lines cluster together indicating that in the midsection of the beach fill 
that was done in 2004, Hurricane Sandy was basically a bad day at the 
beach.  The little foredune just below the crest of the main dune was 
eliminated.  The dunes were just high enough in elevation to keep Sandy 
from coming through the dunes into the infrastructure.  There were six-by-
six timbers laying on the dune crest.  Maybe several swimming pools full of 
water had washed over, but the storm drains had taken care of it.  The 
dunes did not breach in Atlantic City.  And down here at Raleigh Avenue, 
that never even reached the crest of the dune.  So the beach was wider.  It 
absorbed the energy initially.  And what ran up into the dunes was 
dissipated without any damage other than a few sections of snow fence 
knocked out. 
 
In Cape May County, the loss -- there are more profiles in Cape 
May County.  It’s a longer shoreline.  You can’t see the numbers -- I’m sorry 
 
8 
 
 
-- but there are some in red.  The red numbers in that set are in Cape May 
City, Cape May Point.  Sandy actually added sand to the beach in those 
sites, and in significant quantities.  In Wildwood, it raised the berm 
elevation 3 feet, but it pushed the shoreline landward about 150 feet.  Well, 
when you have a 1,000-foot wide dry beach in front of the infrastructure, 
that’s not necessarily a bad thing.  But it did, essentially, create this 3-foot 
higher berm of materials.  The high water level washed the sand up onto the 
dry beach. 
 
In Cape May County, the total sum of lost material was 2.1 
million cubic yards from northern Ocean City all the way down to Cape 
May Point and back up to Reeds Beach.  So 2.1 million yards of sand was 
removed from the beach and dune system. 
 
Now, the damage varied, and the damage can easily be seen as a 
function of the width of the beach and the height of the dunes.  This is 
56th Street, in Ocean City.  The black line is the post-Sandy profile; the 
other lines occurred before it.  And you can see the dune was erased.  Water 
washed into the interior and around the houses.  It did not wipe them out 
particularly, but it definitely flooded them and did structural damage to 
many of them between about 40th Street down to 59th Street, where 
development ends.  And it completely overwashed the State Park at 
Corson’s Inlet.  The waves went right into the Bay. 
 
This is what it looked like before Hurricane Sandy -- is on the 
right.  They brought the sand back from the streets, piled it up to make sort 
of a dune structure.  Remember, in November there was another 
northeastern.  Everybody was panicked that this was going to take us to the 
cleaners again.  So this was a rush job to put that up.  The lower left picture 
 
9 
 
 
is what the dune looked like on October 26, 3012 -- three days before 
Hurricane Sandy.  Because that’s when the survey was done.  So the dune, 
you can see, is only about 30 or 40 feet from the high tide line, and the 
elevation of that dune was 14 feet elevation. 
 
North Wildwood:  Well, this was taken by the City 
Administrator at 2nd and Kennedy, right at the northeast corner of the city.  
You can see from the picture that the water level is equal to the elevation at 
the top of the sea wall, just about, and the waves were coming over.  He 
said the next one that came over he doesn’t have a picture of, but it moved 
the truck five feet sideways.  As it hit the truck, he said, “I’m out of here.  I 
think I have my picture.”  So he shared this with me.  This gives you an 
idea of what it was like down there. 
 
We have followed this with the City.  They went for a beach 
restoration.  They had a beach fill in 2009 as a result of erosion that took 
place.  Yes, Wildwood beaches erode too.  The sand split between going 
into Hereford Inlet and going down to the City of Wildwood.  The areas 
that are circled and shown in green show the amount of material that was 
placed there by Norfolk Dredging as of July 2, 2013.  Yes, they went right 
up to the 4th of July weekend pumping sand on the beach to get it done so 
that they could then turn around and finish the work in Stone Harbor.  A 
total of 150,000 yards of sand were deemed reimbursable under the FEMA 
Category G, damage to park infrastructure.  The beach is considered a park, 
if the community or the State of New Jersey, in cooperation with the 
community, actually builds the beach to a certain design specification, and 
then proceeds to keep it that way through maintenance activities that are 
specified either by ordinance or by resolution.  And North Wildwood had 
 
10 
 
 
done that, so this 150,000 yards of sand will be compensated 75 percent by 
FEMA.  If it’s a Corps of Engineers project beach, it’s Federal, it’s the Corps 
issue.  FEMA does not reimburse on a Federal project beach.  So the Corps 
has been given money by Congress to repair their damaged projects, and 
they are doing so on their own volition. 
 
Further south, on Broadway Avenue, Cape May City, you can 
see the black line is the post-Sandy profile.  And you can see the deposit 
sand, that came off the berm and beach face, out toward the east, dumped 
now up there at the toe of the dunes as the deposit.  So in this case, the 
change was about the same.  This one neither lost nor gained sand.  The 
lost volume was about equal to the gained volume, so it was basically a 
wash.  There was no physical structural damage to any of the infrastructure 
in Cape May City.  This beach fill started in 1989, and it has been 
maintained every several years since. 
 
Here is the view--  The right view is taken November 9, after 
Sandy.  The one on the lower left was taken June 5, 2012.  And you can see 
the snow fence is still there, the restroom is still fine, and even the--  You 
can even see, if you look at the elevation of the stairway coming down, that 
the beach is actually higher than it was in June.  So you actually have a 
visual feel for that gain in sand volume that took place.  Sandy’s waves were 
coming parallel to the shoreline here and coming up onto the beach.  It was 
a wide beach.  They broke early, and they just carried the material up and 
left it.  So basically it was a bonus for them. 
 
The last one is down in Cape May Point.  This is at Willdin 
Avenue at the very end of what you would call the oceanfront on the New 
Jersey shoreline.  The black line is the post-Sandy one, and that shows the--  
 
11 
 
 
In this case, we only go to this community annually, because that’s what 
they want us to do.  And we survey more--  We only have one State profile 
there, but we do nine separate for the Town.  This is at Willdin Avenue.  
This town, by April 2013, was ahead of April 2012 by 175,000 cubic yards 
of sand, directly as a result of sand moving south and being deposited there 
during Hurricane Sandy.  This has never happened in 25 years of doing this 
in terms of that much sand arriving at Cape May Point after any winter 
storm or any combination of winter storms in the last 20 years.  And this is 
a view.  The arrow shows the rock that was there in April of 2012.  The 
same rock is on the right.  And in 2013, obviously, the beach accumulated 
sand.  And that’s it. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Doctor, one question for you in my mind, 
and that’s back to the V Zones. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I understand there has been a very 
significant change from what was announced as the standards for New 
Jersey initially and the recent changes by FEMA.  Can you give me some 
idea of how many homes have been removed from the V Zone? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Ninety-nine percent of them in the counties 
that have been submitted as working maps.  The working preliminary maps 
are out for Monmouth, Ocean, and Atlantic counties.  In Atlantic County, 
we had a meeting just a week-and-a-half ago where we looked at both of the 
situations where almost all of Ventnor Heights was a V Zone.  None of it is 
now.  All of Bayside, Margate, and Long Port was a V Zone. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Most of them have moved to A Zones? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  A9, A10, A8. 
 
12 
 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And what is the height for A8 and A9? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  The 8 is 8 feet above the datum of NAVD 
national -- North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and so it’s 8 feet above 
that zero elevation, which is somewhere between mid tide and high tide. 
 
So basically they’re 8 feet, 9 feet, 10 feet.  And in Brigantine, 
there are a couple of A11 Zones, but they’re on the oceanfront side. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Now, the original V Zone would require 
12 feet, and then DEP would require an additional foot? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Correct. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So the original designation would have 
directed homeowners to raise it-- 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Well, 8 plus 3 is -- yes, that would take you to 
11, plus the 1 is 12.  So it would have been 12 feet. 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  And pilings. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  And with the pilings.  Oh, yes, pilings 
mandatory in a rebuild. 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  In the V Zone. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  That may have added tens of 
thousands-- 
 
DR. FARRELL:  And, of course, the difference in measurements 
is the A Zone is -- the measurement is taken at the finished floor of the 
lowest habitable elevation.  In a V Zone, it’s the first horizontal structural 
member on the building.  So in other words, all the timbering that holds the 
pilings together, that’s -- the bottom of that is the elevation point.  The first 
floor elevation might be 2 or 3 feet higher. 
 
13 
 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So anybody who took the initial direction 
of the State may have raised their home 4 or 5 feet higher than it had to be 
and used structural methods that may not have been required. 
 
DR. 
FARRELL: 
 
Well, 
they 
were 
advisory 
maps.  
Unfortunately, they were kind of-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Adopted as-- 
 
DR. FARRELL:  --adopted as, “This is it.” 
 
The modeling was only half done when they issued them as a 
result of Sandy.  They would have never issued those maps had Sandy not 
happened.  So they brought them out with the elevation data done, but not 
the overland wave modeling for storm waves.  So they just went super 
conservative and said, “Well, we’re going to make everything a V Zone even 
though we have no clue as to what really will be a V Zone.”  And they now 
have finished that model, and revised the maps, and reduced the bayside V 
Zones dramatically.  So that’s basically what happened. 
 
Now, Cape May County hasn’t been released yet, but next 
week-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Whelan. 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  As someone who was in the V Zone 
and is now in an A Zone, I personally want to thank you. 
 
I just want the public to know--  I mean, you’re being very 
humble, Dr. Farrell.  Assemblyman Amodeo and I were in the room when 
Stu Farrell and others met with some of the representatives from FEMA.  
And quite frankly, your input was absolutely essential to opening their eyes 
to the reality of, “You’re not getting the--”  I think most people in this 
audience are probably familiar with it by now.  But the V Zone means 
 
14 
 
 
you’re going to get a 3-foot wave.  And we’re not getting a 3-foot wave in 
the Bay behind Absecon Island, or Brigantine, or most places up and down 
the Jersey Coast.  And it was really your input that opened their eyes to 
that and presented, as you did today on the beachfront -- but presented 
similar data on the oceanfront.  I just wanted to thank you for that. 
 
Now to the question:  Again, the maps that are now out for the 
three counties you mentioned are still working documents. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Correct. 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  But we’re a whole lot closer to what 
makes sense than we were on the first cut.  Would you agree with that? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Absolutely.  See, they finished the overland 
wave modeling.  And if the 3-foot wave on the Bay that is hypothetically 
there during the storm actually finds a bulkhead, or a fence, or a building -- 
it breaks, and the game is over in terms of a 3-foot wave impacting the 
structure from that point on.  And what they found out was that a bulkhead 
at elevation 7 would trip the waves and make them break.  If they were 7.5 
or 8 feet, game over.  So basically the V Zones stopped at the bulkhead 
when they actually ran the models for the counties that are done yet (sic).  
So I don’t expect that there is going to be much difference in Cape May 
County.  It’s going to be a far lower number of houses in the V Zone as a 
result of them finishing the models and getting it right. 
 
There are still some issues that haven’t been resolved in 
Brigantine.  We’re working with them on that through the City Engineer, 
myself, and the governing body.  And so there is a small strip of about 12 to 
15 residences that are still V Zone properties.  But their own model stops 
the wave breaking in the Bay.  So why would they still be a V Zone? 
 
15 
 
 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  Well, I just hope they continue to 
listen to your input. 
 
Thank you. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Well, we’re working on it.  We’re working with 
them, not against them.  So it helps to be kind of working with them to--  
And I had a lot of help from the engineering fraternity -- the municipal 
engineers.  Hatch Mott MacDonald was particularly helpful.  And so we 
worked together to come up with a series of things that brought this 
problem to their attention. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  With regard to Cape May 
County, you indicated that those maps are not finished yet, but the 
anticipation is that they will be shortly.  How has the community reacted to 
that?  Have we seen any construction going on in Cape May County in 
those areas of the V Zone?  And if we have, have those individuals stopped 
in light of the fact that there is a potential that the maps will change? 
 
DR. FARRELL:  Well, I don’t have data on the number of 
building permits that have been issued, but I do know that construction is 
going on in the Bay side of Cape May County.  And it appears as if most of 
the construction on the Bay side anyway is using traditional block 
foundations, but they may be going higher than the-- 
 
Everybody seems to be looking at the freeboard in the 
municipalities.  Cape May and Atlantic County have a coalition they put 
together that meets monthly.  We just met last Thursday where we 
discussed these issues amongst the code officials, the elected officials, and 
the engineers for the municipalities about what should be the freeboard.  
And right now, many of these communities are adopting--  If it’s an A8 
 
16 
 
 
Zone, they’re saying a 2-foot freeboard -- but to gain credit in the 
community rating service that the flood insurance program has, to get credit 
for having excess freeboard over what the mandated elevation is and get 
points for doing so. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Dr. Farrell. 
 
DR. FARRELL:  You’re very welcome. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you, Dr. Farrell. 
 
Next up, we have former DEP Commissioner -- and now with 
Edgewood Properties -- Mark Mauriello. 
 
Welcome. 
M A R K   N.   M A U R I E L L O:  Good morning. 
 
Well, I want to commend the Committee Chairwoman 
Spencer, Chairman Smith, for holding the hearing -- Senators and Assembly 
folks.  It’s good to see you all again. 
 
I just have a few remarks I want to make, but I feel a little bit 
compelled to just talk about the issue of these FEMA advisory-based flood 
maps and flood insurance rate maps that ultimately will govern insurance 
premiums as well as construction standards.  And it’s very important to 
realize that when FEMA puts these maps out there, these maps are, 
essentially, a minimum standard.  And the code of Federal regulations that 
implements the National Flood Insurance Program -- it’s CFR 60, Section 
44 -- talks about the fact that these are minimum standards that don’t 
factor in sea level rise, don’t factor in future conditions. 
 
And I think we all know--  I know a lot of you folks have been 
around, and your districts have had floods -- whether it’s coastal or inland 
 
17 
 
 
floods along the Delaware, the Passaic.  Fully compliant homes that meet 
that minimum standard get flooded.  People have damages -- there are costs 
incurred, and the misery of that.  So the idea of exceeding that minimum 
standard is something that we’ve promoted for a very long time.  In fact, 
FEMA, who produces the maps, recommends that you incorporate a 3-foot 
freeboard standard.  So if the base flood elevation on a map is 10, they 
recommend constructing to a minimum elevation of 13.  And it’s 
conservative.  It’s absolutely conservative.  But I think when you’re talking 
about floodplains and coastal hazard areas, being conservative when you 
build a house that you’re going to own for a long time makes a lot of sense.  
So it’s been a little confusing to folks.  And I don’t think the discussion and 
the guidance has been as good as it could have been for the homeowners, 
because people just didn’t know what to do as things were in flux. 
 
But there are some basic concerns that are important that 
people realize, which are that these are vulnerable areas.  The floods are 
going to get more extreme; we know that.  Sea level is rising; we know that.  
It’s not a question.  We have data to show that.  So I think it is important 
that we are conservative.  We’re talking about protecting people, protecting 
property, and ultimately protecting the taxpayers who subsidize all this 
development through insurance and recovery costs. 
 
But moving on to some of the brief comment we have -- and I 
understand you have a full agenda, so I will be brief.  One of the concerns 
that I’ve recognized is that we have the Army Corps coming into the State 
to do a massive beach nourishment project for the whole coastline.  The 
cost of that has been a little bit subject to debate.  Clearly over $1 billion, 
maybe less than $2 billion -- a lot of money coming in with sand.  But at 
 
18 
 
 
the same time, there are a number of other projects that are being planned, 
contemplated, and constructed that folks don’t really have an opportunity 
to look at before they happen.  And I think the point I want to make is, 
again, the taxpayers are contributing the cost to build these structures.  And 
without a public process whereby the agencies can talk publicly about what 
is being contemplated, how much it will cost, what alternatives were 
considered, I think it is really not doing justice to what should be a very 
transparent, public process for shore protection projects, priorities, and 
funding. 
 
A case in point -- and I just stumbled across some plans and 
correspondence on the Brick Township website -- was a commitment from 
the State of New Jersey to Brick Township to spend, with the Federal 
government, $40 million minimum to build a steel sheet pile wall in the 
beach.  This is a four-mile long wall that’s proposed from Mantoloking 
through Brick with an elevation -- top elevation of 16 feet.  And it’s being 
justified to protect Route 35, which is going to be reconstructed over the 
next year-and-a-half.  Well, the elevation of Route 35 is about 5 or 6 feet 
above sea level.  The elevation of this wall is about 16 feet above sea level.  
And the wall is proposed to be built out in the beach.  And the theory is, 
the wall will be built, the Corps will do this massive nourishment and bury 
this wall in the sand, and it will be a nice backstop in the event of a severe 
storm.  And the condition is that the communities have to maintain sand 
cover over this wall that is out on the beach -- in some cases, 600 feet from 
Route 35. 
 
I use that as an example of something that a lot of folks have 
interest in, whether it’s as a geologist or former regulator, as a taxpayer who 
 
19 
 
 
ultimately pays for this.  There really needs to be a more open discussion 
from the agencies working on these projects so that folks know how things 
are going, where the money is being spent, and there’s an opportunity to 
have a discussion about what is the most appropriate solution. 
 
So I express that concern on behalf of a number of public 
groups, nonprofits, and other interested folks such as myself who really see 
this as a dangerous path.  Because the decisions we make now--  And we’re 
a little bit drunk with all this money.  I mean, this Federal appropriation is 
massive, and it’s unprecedented, and it sort of makes you a little bit less 
concerned about what you do because there is so much money.  But we 
can’t lose site of the fact of being smart in how we spend the money.  And 
we have to make sure we’re spending it on things that don’t come back to 
haunt us once the Federal money dries up, and the beaches erode, and we 
have these recurring storms.  And it doesn’t have to be another Sandy.  We 
all know that northeasters pound our coast, damage our infrastructure, and 
threaten our property and our people.  So I think it’s really important that 
we try--  And I would ask the Legislature to try to find a way to get that to 
be a more open, public process. 
 
Leading into that -- and this all sort of knits together -- the 
State of New Jersey, right now, deserves a lot of credit for being aggressive 
in using some of this money for property acquisition.  And it’s important.  
We’ve seen it work in the Passaic Basin, we’ve seen it work in Strathmere, 
in Sea Isle City.  Several blocks of Sea Isle City got wiped out after the ’62 
storm, as a result of that storm.  And the mayor at that time condemned the 
properties that got wiped out.  He did some TDR.  He was way ahead of his 
time -- Dominic Raffa.  And today I sort of hold that out as an example that 
 
20 
 
 
it can be done.  Is it expensive?  Yes.  But the alternatives are also very 
expensive. 
 
My point is that while the State is targeting properties in the 
Raritan Bay, and Sayreville -- very important -- Passaic Basin, important -- 
we’re really ignoring opportunities to acquire oceanfront property in some 
of these heavily impacted areas.  And I’m thinking of places like Ortley 
Beach, which everyone has seen -- it’s sort of the Ground Zero area -- where 
the devastation was extreme.  And I think one of the problems is that the 
bar has been set so high for when an oceanfront acquisition can happen 
with State funds.  It has to be a willing seller, which I think is important; 
but it also has to be a willing community, which I don’t think should be a 
standard for bailing a property owner out who wants to get out of a hazard 
zone.  We shouldn’t have to condition that on the town agreeing to do it, 
because the town’s interest is not necessarily the property owner’s interest.  
And so what we’re missing are opportunities to acquire some of these 
oceanfront properties, create a little bit of space where it doesn’t currently 
exist.  And that space then can be used to build sand dunes, to restore 
dunes; and on the Bay side, restore wetlands and natural systems that will 
protect our communities.  People always say it’s very expensive to buy that 
house, but we’re spending an awful lot of money, and we’ll continue to do 
so.  And we’re doing it in a manner that’s not really sustainable over the 
long term.  We’re going to have to keep spending the money, whether it’s 
beach nourishment, or sea walls, or whatever it may be.  We have to adapt 
differently, and we have to pull back incrementally to create some 
additional space within which we can sustain these natural systems.  That’s 
very important. 
 
21 
 
 
 
Getting back to the point of beach nourishment and dunes, 
there’s an interesting contrast when you look at a lot of engineered beaches.  
And these are beaches that are essentially built with pumped sand and, 
oftentimes, sand dunes that are built through bulldozing the sand into that 
formation.  There are other communities that have never had a beach 
nourishment project, ever -- communities like Seaside Park, the Midway 
Beach section of Berkeley Township.  And when we do the damage surveys 
after storms -- particularly Sandy -- we saw extreme damages in Seaside 
Heights, and Ortley Beach, and immediately south of those communities.  
And in Seaside Park and Berkeley Township, oceanfront damages were 
minimal, and the reason is because they had that space.  They had that 
setback; they had the good land use practice; and they had the very healthy 
dunes that, in combination, provide the protection. 
 
So I think the message and the lesson learned is, building dunes 
out on the beach, pushing sand in the ocean is not necessarily going to be 
enough over the long-term.  It’s not sustainable.  Without pulling back a 
little bit to create additional space for these systems to exist and sustain 
themselves, we’re really going to be pouring a lot of money into the ocean 
until we come up with a better idea; unfortunately until the next storm 
comes in and repeats history. 
 
So I’d like to point out the fact that there are communities that 
haven’t had to rely on beach nourishment, which is effective but it’s very 
costly and it’s temporary.  And there’s a question about how long can we 
afford to do this.  And probably because of my background as a geologist, I 
look at very long time periods.  I’m not even talking about geologic time 
 
22 
 
 
here.  I’m talking about 25 years, 50 years, which may sound like a long 
time, but it’s a planning horizon.  It’s our kids, it’s our grandkids. 
 
So I think it’s important that as we spend all this money on 
nourishment, we have to look at land use management as a complimentary 
mitigation strategy.  Because just doing one isn’t going to cut it.  And if we 
can apply a number of strategies, we’ll be much more effective in protecting 
people and property, much more sustainable, and much more responsible 
with taxpayer money.  There are a lot of competing needs.  We have 
problems all over the state with transportation infrastructure failing, our 
schools, our police -- all of these tremendous problems.  We shouldn’t be 
perpetuating more of the same problems and costs that we have along the 
shore. 
 
Moving on to the infrastructure:  We have a tremendous 
opportunity now, as we reconstruct infrastructure, to look at new 
technologies, particularly in some of these urban areas that are so heavily 
developed -- 95 percent impervious cover, very little open space.  We have 
an opportunity to retrofit a lot of the systems and apply green 
infrastructure techniques that remove pavement, create more green space 
that allows for stormwater to infiltrate.  And we can’t think of everything as 
being Sandy-proof, because it will never be Sandy-proof.  And I hate to say 
it, but we’re not stronger than the storm.  We never were; we will not be.  
But we can be smart; we can adapt.  We can try to make incremental 
changes so that all the range of the floods -- these different frequency 
storms -- we can better respond and adapt to those conditions.  That goes 
for the stormwater infrastructure. 
 
23 
 
 
 
And then very briefly on another side--  And we’ve been lucky 
we haven’t had a drought condition.  But having worked at DEP for 30 
years through several droughts, we know it’s just a matter of time.  And we 
have serious problems with our water infrastructure.  Many of those systems 
will be benefiting from this aid that is coming in for reconstruction.  And 
one problem that I see -- and I lived it while I was at DEP -- is that we have 
a State Water Supply Plan that is 17 years old.  It’s an embarrassment.  I 
was embarrassed when I was Commissioner of that, that it was that old.  
That Water Supply Management Act requires that this plan be updated 
every five years.  It hasn’t been updated since 1996.  When I took over as 
Commissioner and had the authority to really boss people around, I had our 
Water Supply Division, in one year, complete a final draft update of that 
plan, which was being reviewed in December of ’09.  And unfortunately I 
ran out of time due to the circumstances of the election, which is fine.  But 
that plan has languished.  And the word from DEP now is that they have 
“parked the plan.”  That’s a quote from the highest levels of the agency.  
We have to get the plan out of park.  We have to put it in drive.  And we 
need that plan to be updated, because that’s the vision for how we deal with 
infrastructure needs in the future.  Where are the demands, where are the 
supplies, where are the shortages going to be, how do we interconnect, how 
do we build more resilient infrastructure so we maintain water service?  So 
it’s a very simple action.  And I think -- not to presume I know how you do 
your business -- but having a statute requiring an update that’s been ignored 
-- and it was ignored for a long time.  It’s not just the current 
Administration.  I think it’s time that we do what the statute tells us to do.  
Get that plan updated.  That can be what guides the water infrastructure 
 
24 
 
 
decisions.  Without that, we’re missing opportunities as we invest a lot of 
money in this infrastructure to enhance it, to make it more resilient and 
adapt to current conditions. 
 
Last few points:  I mentioned the Act.  There are two bills I 
want to comment on.  You may hear about others that I think we need to 
move ahead.  There has been some good legislation coming out of Sandy.  
The bill that I know Senator Smith and, I believe, Senator Whelan put 
forth to provide relief for homeowners from the height restrictions as they 
elevate the homes -- it’s a great bill; very important. 
 
Senator Whelan has a bill he sponsored to direct the DEP to 
establish a priority system for shore protection funding.  We contribute $25 
million a year -- the taxpayers.  It comes from the Realty Transfer Tax.  We 
need to have an above-board process for how projects are selected.  What’s 
being considered?  What are the costs?  Are they the right projects?  And I 
think that that bill -- we need to mobilize support for that bill. 
 
I will also beat the drum for Assemblyman Barnes’ Coastal 
Commission bill.  I think one of the things that has been clearly evident in 
the wake of Sandy is that we don’t have very well-integrated planning for 
our coast.  We have State agencies doing planning, we have county agencies 
doing planning, we have universities doing planning.  We have a lot of 
bright people in the state.  You heard from Dr. Farrell.  There are great guys 
at Stevens Tech who do coastal engineering work.  Rutgers has amazing 
talent.  And we’re missing an opportunity to tap all this expertise of people 
who know these issues, who can help formulate planning and policy.  The 
Coastal Commission, I think, is an idea that--  It was good enough for 
 
25 
 
 
Governor Kean in the late 1980s.  It should be good enough for us today.  I 
think he was a visionary in that, and I would hate to see that not happen. 
 
Let’s see, just two more points:  In the wake of Sandy, there 
was a lot of talk about the dreaded red tape.  And you hear a lot of that in 
Trenton lately about the -- “We have to cut the red tape.”  I’m particularly 
concerned about the extent of emergency rule making that’s gone on at the 
DEP over the past eight months.  I can understand changing rules to make 
administrative requirements simpler to help people through the process, but 
we’ve seen amendments to the Flood Hazard rules, the Coastal Zone 
Management rules, the Coastal Program rules.  And it’s all been talked 
about -- red tape and streamlining.  But if you look at the changes, these are 
substantive changes to environmental standards that are not necessary to 
deal with the Sandy recovery.  And it’s really frightening because the 
process is, DEP adopts these rules--  The minute they put the paper -- and 
they submit it to OAL, it’s effective.  The public gets to comment.  And I’ve 
commented; a lot of folks have commented.  FEMA has actually 
commented on some of the Flood Hazard rules.  And the comments get 
ignored, the rules get adopted as proposed.  There are inconsistencies in this 
rule with the NFIP.  It’s been brought to DEP’s attention.  This is serious 
business, because the NFIP is what provides insurance for our communities.  
Without that flood insurance, there would be a lot more hurt out there. 
 
We have Coastal Zone Management rules that change the 
standards for how towns can bulldoze beaches and, in some cases, bulldoze 
sand so that it doesn’t build the dunes higher.  That policy is a disaster.  If 
that policy were in effect in Atlantic City, these dunes that we built starting 
in the mid-’80s wouldn’t have been as big as they are today and would not 
 
26 
 
 
have held back Sandy to prevent all that damage.  So we need to get back to 
the Administrative Procedures Act, where you promulgate a rule by a 
proposal, you take public comment, hopefully you have stakeholder input 
into that rule.  We used to do a lot of IPRs -- interested party reviews -- 
where we would meet with the communities and stakeholders -- meaningful, 
not select guest-list meetings -- open meetings where anybody can come and 
talk about how the State policy will develop in these areas.  We need to get 
back to that and hopefully no more of this knee-jerk emergency rule making 
at this point. 
 
And lastly, the point of planning -- and I emphasize that 
because I think it’s severely lacking.  We haven’t seen the resources and the 
effort to implement comprehensive planning beyond the stovepipes of the 
agencies, and that’s the key.  We need to get more input into those.  There 
used to be many opportunities for interest groups to meet directly with the 
commissioner of DEP.  I sat in on a lot of those meetings, I conducted those 
meetings.  They were very valuable.  They weren’t always fun, because some 
of the folks who came in said things we didn’t like to hear, but we need to 
hear that.  We have to get all of those opinions and perspectives. 
 
We have hazard mitigation planning that is going on now in 
communities and counties.  We need to support that very strongly.  
Currently there is money out there.  We have to make sure these groups 
have the resources to do the planning.  They need to look at land use 
management, which is really the missing link in a lot of these plans.  
Building bigger, and stronger, and harder is great, but land use has to be 
factored in, and we have to recognize -- particularly in the coast -- sea level 
rise is a reality.  We have tide gauge data from the Steel Pier out here and 
 
27 
 
 
from Sandy Hook.  We know sea level has risen 1.3 to 1.4 feet over the past 
100 years.  It’s happening.  We have to factor that into our planning, our 
regulations, and our policies. 
 
I thank you for your time. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  One question for you, Mark. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  How important for making New Jersey 
storm-resilient is the need for a stable source of funding for Open Space? 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Well, it’s a good point.  I failed to 
mention that, and I should have.  My discussion about acquisition--  
Obviously I’m feeling a little drunk by the Federal dollars coming in, but 
they’re going to be gone.  And without that funding source--  And that’s 
what it always comes down to.  We don’t have the money to do it. 
 
The other thing is:  We don’t necessarily look at the long-term 
alternatives.  So when someone says, “It’s too expensive to buy out this row 
of oceanfront homes,” I would ask, “What is the cost to let them rebuild in 
that location?”  Now you’ve just basically signed on to ongoing 
nourishment, more storm damage and misery to these homeowners, more 
recovery costs, putting these communities at risk of having to deal with this.  
So we have to ask the tough questions of the alternatives.  And clearly, 
without having a pot of money--  New Jersey has a great program -- the Blue 
Acres Program, the Green Acres Program -- it’s renown, it’s effective.  It’s 
not just farms anymore and historic sites, it’s flood plains and high-hazard 
coastal property.  We have to be aggressive with that.  Without a stable 
source of funding it can’t happen.  And I understand taxes are a bad word, 
but I do think going back and looking at all the options, a water tax 
 
28 
 
 
probably makes the most sense; but that’s not my business, that’s your 
business.  And I will leave that to you folks. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
MR. MAURIELLO:  Thank you. 
 
Maryann Flanigan, Legal Services of New Jersey. 
M A R Y A N N   F L A N I G A N,   ESQ.:  I have copies of my 
statement.  I’m not sure if I should give them to you now. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You need to sit so everybody can hear 
what you’re saying. 
 
I believe what you just said is you have copies of your 
statement. 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  Sure.  Yes, I have copies of my statement. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So give us the summary. 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  Okay, sure. 
 
First of all, good morning and thank you for the opportunity to 
appear here on behalf of Legal Services of New Jersey and on behalf of the 
numerous New Jersey residents who were affected by Sandy. 
 
In the immediate aftermath of Sandy, the Robin Hood 
Foundation gave Legal Services significant support, which allowed us to 
begin providing free legal services to New Jersey residents who had civil 
legal problems caused as a result of Sandy.  Then the Hurricane Sandy New 
Jersey Relief Fund also provided us assistance.  So, to date, we have been 
the major legal services provider in the State of New Jersey for people with 
Sandy-related legal issues.  We have assisted over 1,500 clients free of 
charge, and we continue to assist more clients.  Even now, 10 months after 
 
29 
 
 
the storm, we still get new clients on a daily basis who have Sandy-related 
legal issues. 
 
So I’m going to divide my remarks into two sections.  First, I 
will speak about a couple of immediate needs that we think could be 
addressed very quickly, and then I will highlight a few points that could be 
addressed in a more future-focused perspective for any future disasters. 
 
So the first immediate need that we think needs addressing is, 
there are townships in Cumberland County and other counties throughout 
the state that were not designated as disaster counties.  And the residents in 
these townships have not been able to qualify for State grants like the 
RREM program.  So one of the first things we suggest needs to be done is 
designating these non-disaster townships -- or the townships that are in 
non-disaster counties as eligible for grant assistance.  We had one client 
who suffered substantial damage to her house and is still suffering.  She 
didn’t have flood insurance.  Homeowners didn’t cover the flood damage, 
and she couldn’t qualify for RREM assistance. 
 
The second immediate need we think needs to be addressed is 
creating an obligation for insurance companies to furnish not only the full 
copy of the policy, but also all endorsements -- all related benefits and 
coverage -- to the insured upon request.  We’ve had numerous clients who 
contacted their homeowner’s insurance company after Sandy.  They filed a 
claim, they requested a copy of the policy so that we could provide better 
legal assistance for them.  We would receive a copy of the policy, and there 
would be an indication on the declaration page that there are maybe 8 to 10 
endorsements.  None of those endorsements were provided.  One client 
submitted a statement.  It’s included in the long version that I will submit 
 
30 
 
 
to you.  Basically, she just got the final parts of her endorsements last week.  
She’s been fighting with her homeowner’s insurance company for six 
months to get copies of her endorsements.  She had one of the attorneys in 
our office calling the insurance company, writing letters on her behalf.  And 
she just got -- finally, six months after a fight with the insurance company -- 
finally received the copies of her endorsements.  And what’s even more 
surprising and disturbing is, the couple of endorsements that her insurance 
company delayed delivering to her were endorsements which contained 
coverage for things that they were trying to deny her for, that she should 
have been covered for, from the first day that she applied for Sandy 
assistance under the Sandy plan. 
 
So we do suggest that the State take some type of immediate 
action to provide this right for insured New Jersey residents.  We are aware 
of the bill which was recently signed by the Governor requiring 
homeowners’ insurance companies to provide a one-page summary of the 
policies.  So we think that this other requirement -- that they furnish all of 
the endorsements and related coverage -- would be a great supplement to 
that bill. 
 
I’m going to now discuss some future needs that would be 
geared toward addressing issues for future disasters.  One of the first things 
that I’m going to mention in this regard is something that many, many, 
many of our clients encountered, again with insurance issues.  However, this 
was on the side of the mortgage companies not releasing their insurance 
funds to them from the escrow in a timely manner. 
 
So, as you’re probably all aware, when the insurance check 
comes to the insured, if there is a mortgage on the house, the insurance 
 
31 
 
 
check is made out to the insured and to the mortgage company.  The 
mortgage company then holds the check in escrow and releases it in 
increments, which are typically not very well clarified in the policy.  So the 
insured is kind of trying to figure out from the mortgage company, “Okay.  
I have this contractor who is here, ready to do the work.  When am I going 
to get the first installment?  When will I get the second installment?  How 
will I be able to get this done in a timely manner and get repairs done quick 
enough so that everything is completed before the damage gets worse?” 
 
One of the things we recommend the State should do is issue 
guidelines for mortgage companies regarding how insurance proceeds need 
to be disbursed both before repairs begin, as well as, as repairs are ongoing.  
And we think that is something that would help a lot of New Jersey 
residents, both in this disaster and in future disasters where any insurance 
claims need to be filed. 
 
One of the second future needs that we think needs to be 
addressed is, there is a significant housing and rental shortage, which was 
already in New Jersey prior to Sandy.  Then, when Sandy affected the shore 
counties and numerous homes, motels, apartment buildings, residences were 
destroyed, it only exacerbated the problem further.  So we also encountered 
issues where residents were able to receive FEMA temporary shelter 
assistance.  And this helped them in that situation, but then the temporary 
shelter assistance didn’t really provide them enough time.  Because with the 
housing shortage, even if they were able to get a DCA voucher, they 
couldn’t find a place to go, and then they were kind of left scrambling.  
Some clients had to then move their entire families into, like, one-bedroom 
apartments just because they couldn’t afford to move far away from their 
 
32 
 
 
jobs or move their kids out of the school district.  So there were a lot of 
issues that were significantly worsened by the housing shortage and the lack 
of affordable housing for people of all financial incomes. 
 
And I have here with me a client, Sonia. 
 
Sonia, would you like to speak about it now or at the end, after 
my remarks? 
S O N I A   D A L E Y (phonetic spelling):  After your remarks. 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  Okay.  So Sonia will speak about her 
experience in a few moments. 
 
And one of the other future needs which we think needs to be 
addressed is better publication and better publicity of the home repair 
contractor regulations, which the State has available for New Jersey 
residents.  So we’re all aware that the Consumer Fraud Act and the 
availability for any New Jersey resident to contact the Division of 
Consumer Affairs -- find out whether a contractor is licensed or what their 
reputation is.  But despite all of these great resources, we have numerous 
clients who were scammed and defrauded by very shoddy and shady 
contractors both from New Jersey and from outside of the state of New 
Jersey.  Even the New Jersey Attorney General’s Office recently filed charges 
against eight contractors.  So despite all of these great protections, there is 
some disconnect between New Jersey residents actually understanding their 
rights, and understanding the steps they need to take to protect themselves 
and protect their insurance money in a disaster when they’re trying to get 
their homes repaired.  So we just suggest that the State really focus on some 
further distribution efforts of awareness, fact sheets, public awareness 
campaigns, radio ads, circulars, things like that to really make sure that New 
 
33 
 
 
Jersey residents understand what their rights are and understand the steps 
they need to take to protect themselves. 
 
Another future suggestion that we recommend is with regard to 
abandoned tenant property for renters.  Particularly in the shore counties, 
we had clients who were displaced or evacuated.  And due to martial law, or 
just numerous issues with even getting across the road to return to their 
home, they weren’t able to return to their rental property for weeks after 
the storm.  By the time they got back, they found out that their landlord 
had disposed of pretty much all of their property.  In some situations, yes, 
the property was damaged badly by flood water.  In other situations, the 
tenant is not really confident that that’s what happened. 
 
There is a New Jersey statute that requires a landlord to notify 
a tenant in any situation when they’re going to be disposing of property 
that they think is abandoned.  And in a situation like Sandy, where mail 
notice isn’t going to be affective because the tenant can’t receive mail at 
that property that they’ve been displaced from, there needs to be other 
protections in place, statutorily.  So we suggest having a requirement that 
the landlord has to also include phone contact to the tenant, possibly e-mail 
contact.  And this is something that could easily be included in any lease 
agreement.  There should just be some disaster emergency clause where the 
landlord is then required to use these different methods to contact the 
tenant when there is a disaster and normal means of notification aren’t 
available.  And we also do suggest that in the disaster situation, if the 
landlord does want to give the notice and dispose of the property, they 
should be required to wait at least 21 days in extension from what the 
statute already requires.  Because when people are displaced, they’re getting 
 
34 
 
 
their mail forwarded.  It could take awhile for them to even receive the 
notice and know that they have to go claim their property. 
 
Another future suggestion that we have is strengthening the 
requirement for landlords to notify tenants that they’re in a flood-risk zone. 
We had clients who rented single-family homes and didn’t know they were 
in a flood-risk zone.  So they never pursued or even inquired about flood 
insurance.  Then they suffered substantial damage, and they couldn’t get it 
covered.  The landlord never told them.  There is a statute that requires 
landlords to tell tenants that they’re in a flood-risk zone.  Many landlords 
do not comply with the statute.  And unfortunately, the statute does not 
cover tenants who are in single-family rentals or tenants who are in seasonal 
occupancy rentals.  So we do suggest that the statute should be expanded to 
provide further protection for those New Jersey residents who weren’t 
informed of the fact that they were in a flood-risk zone.  Also, we do suggest 
that the statute should require the landlord to give that notice of the flood-
risk zone as a written notice.  It could be something included with the lease 
or just in a letter when they sign the lease. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Are there any penalties for not providing 
notice? 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  So right now there are no penalties.  There 
was one case that kind of addressed the issue.  The judge ruled that there is 
a right to void a lease when there is no flood-risk notice, but there wasn’t 
any actual compensation for the damage that the tenant sustained due to 
lack of notice. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  And then you don’t find out 
that you have the right until after the damage has already been sustained. 
 
35 
 
 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  Exactly. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  And you really have no 
relief. 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  Exactly. 
 
The final suggestion that we have is strengthening the tenant’s 
right to use the rent for habitability repairs in a disaster context.  So 
obviously when Sandy hit, there were a number of renters whose property 
sustained damage.  They had floodwater damage, they had debris, things 
like that.  And we had one renter who contacted us.  His unit took in about 
five inches of floodwater damage.  He contacted the landlord and asked the 
landlord to make repairs.  The landlord said, “I’ll get to the repairs, but 
you’re still responsible for the rent.”  The landlord took about a month-and-
a-half to do the repairs.  And the tenant sought our assistance because he 
couldn’t live there for a month, and he didn’t feel it was right for him to 
pay the rent for that period. 
 
So there is a statue, that is New Jersey statute 46:8-6, and this 
statute says that when a rental property is injured by fire, and it’s not the 
tenant’s fault, the landlord has a duty to repair quickly.  And if no repair is 
met in a reasonable time, then the rent shall cease until the building is 
repaired quickly.  So we do recommend that this statute be expanded to 
also address disaster context, where if there is flood damage to a rental unit 
or some other type of disaster that is not the tenant’s fault, there should be 
a protection, statutorily, that the tenant has a right to withhold rent at least 
until the premises is habitable again. 
 
36 
 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  So the courts have not 
interpreted -- or the courts have not allowed for flood situations to be 
included in that? 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  So, there haven’t been a lot of decisions on 
this issue yet.  The client who I was referring to specifically ended up 
settling with the landlord, and we got a very good settlement for the client.  
There were some cases--  Well, in one case there was an unreported 
decision, and I think there may have been some other cases that were 
unreported where it was just an issue of habitability due to lack of power, 
which was not under the landlord’s control.  And in those circumstances, I 
think it was pretty much going to boil down to whether the landlord is 
required, in the lease, to provide utilities.  Because that then creates an 
extra obligation -- that the landlord is supposed to be responsible for those 
services being provided to the tenant. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Okay. 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  So that pretty much wraps up my remarks.  I 
just do want to mention, with regard to the entire situation that our clients 
are facing with housing, rebuilding housing, lack of housing:  There are all 
these reports that are still coming out now in 2013 about the affects of 
Hurricane Katrina -- about still the lack of housing for people in those areas.  
So I just think it’s important that we remember that in New Jersey, eight 
years from now, we don’t want to still be facing these problems.  We need 
to move quickly and get reforms made. 
 
With that said, I’m going to allow Sonia to now speak about 
her experience.  She’s going to be touching on her experience with being 
 
37 
 
 
displaced from Sandy and then the long struggle she went through to get a 
voucher for assistance. 
 
MS. DALEY:  Yes, my name is Sonia Daley, and I was 
displaced by Sandy. 
 
For the first couple of days we were out -- but after -- we get a 
good response.  But after November, we were in a four-bedroom (sic) -- me, 
and my daughter, and my grandkids.  We could not get any place for us to 
be situated.  We had to move into three different houses -- two of my 
daughters.  And one of my daughters went out and got a two-bedroom to 
rent, but I’m living with one of my daughters still. 
 
And the problem I’m having is that when you call the Housing 
Authority, we are getting, “Go to this line, go to that line,” and nobody can 
give you any answer whatsoever.  This is my complaint -- no answer.  I had 
to take it upon myself and write even the President; Mr. Whelan, 
everybody -- every Senator, every local person, even Mr. Langford’s office.  
And it was yesterday, after 10 months, before I got a paper, because I went 
back to the Housing Authority and started screaming -- they gave me this 
paper for me to pick up a voucher on Tuesday.  Mr. Whelan’s secretary 
Kathleen -- she called me.  She listened to what I was saying for about a 
half-hour.  She said, “Ms. Daley, I’m going to call some people and call you 
back.”  She called me back, and what she got was that there are no more 
vouchers for us to get.  I’m not begging -- I’m not asking for the government 
to pay my rent.  I have a $872 Disability check.  I’m willing to pay half of 
my Disability check for somewhere to live.  I just want somewhere I can pay 
my rent.  Because last year I could get a one-bedroom for $350.  Now, the 
same one-bedroom you can get for about $900 -- same one-bedroom.  And 
 
38 
 
 
that--  Where I’m coming from -- I’m coming from my friends--  We’re still 
living in a hotel with four kids in one room, no kitchen.  And that’s where 
I’m coming from.  I got my place because I know how to go about--  I can 
defend myself.  But I’m talking about people who are still in the streets.  
I’m in the street because I live with my daughter, and to have her to have it 
convenient during the day, I leave and go out in the street.  And when I go 
out in the street -- and what I see I can’t believe -- so many people who live 
in Atlantic City homeless because of Sandy.  And all we’re asking--  A lot of 
them -- I’m telling you, because I have a friend who is still working -- living 
in a hotel because they can’t afford to pay rent -- no vouchers.  I was at 
Pleasantville High School last week -- Monday -- and they were only taking 
people who had vouchers.  The people who don’t have vouchers -- they’re 
turning them away.  And I don’t believe that’s fair.  We weren’t displaced 
because we want the government to support us.  We just want to get 
somewhere where we can afford to pay our rent.  I’m not begging for a 
handout; I’m just begging for somewhere affordable. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We understand. 
 
Thank you for your comments. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Before you go though, Ms. 
Flanigan. 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  Yes. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN 
SPENCER: 
 
You 
had 
indicated 
something with regard to an insurance company.  And I forget where my 
notes are.  But I am also the Vice Chair of the Assembly Finance and 
Insurance Committee.  And the Department of Banking and Insurance has 
extended itself in those situations where they’re having problems dealing 
 
39 
 
 
with the insurance companies.  And certainly there is an ombudsman who 
has involved themselves in a lot of situations that arose in the northern part 
of the state, where my office has been contacted.  If you are still 
experiencing problems in communicating with insurance companies with 
regard to responding to requests for information on behalf of your clients, 
please contact your local Senator or Assemblyperson, or the Department of 
Banking and Insurance directly, for assistance.  And trust me, they will be a 
lot more responsive. 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  I can say the Department of Banking and 
Insurance has been very helpful to a number of our clients.  But it’s almost 
a shame that the client has to threaten to contact the Department of 
Banking and Insurance or actually have someone call on their behalf just to 
get the policy and the endorsements that they’re paying for. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  But you know what?  We’re 
here.  And my mother used to always say, “Use me while I’m here, because 
one day I may not be.”  So use them, because you never know--  They do it 
to one client, they do it to another client, and it goes on, and on, and on.  
And insurance companies need to be held to the fire. 
 
MS. FLANIGAN:  Yes, I agree. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
MS. DALEY:  And please release those vouchers to those 
homeless people. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Certainly. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Staci Berger, Housing and Community 
Development Network of New Jersey. 
 
40 
 
 
S T A C I   B E R G E R:  Good morning. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. 
 
My name is Staci Berger.  I’m the Executive Director of the 
Housing and Community Development Network of New Jersey, the 
statewide association of more than 250 community development 
corporations, individuals, and other organizations that support the creation 
of homes and economic opportunities for low- and moderate-income New 
Jerseyans. 
 
With me today are Lee Ann Newland and her husband John 
Lambert, from Neptune -- I don’t know where John went -- oh, John’s all 
the way behind me, sorry -- and Simone and Kenneth Dannecker, from 
Union Beach.  Both of these families worked with our affiliate in 
Monmouth County -- the Affordable Housing Alliance -- after the Storm 
hit, and they’re going to tell you a little bit about their experiences.  I just 
wanted to give you a little bit of the overview that we’ve heard from 
community development organizations around the state. 
 
And I have copies of the testimony for anybody who wishes to 
read those. 
 
Like 
so 
many 
natural 
disasters, 
Hurricane 
Sandy 
disproportionately impacted low-income communities and households.  
Forty percent of the folks who registered with the FEMA for assistance have 
incomes below $30,000 per year.  The proportion of those folks is 
particularly high among renters, with nearly two-thirds of the renters 
registered for FEMA qualifying as low-income.  Thousands of families are 
still displaced from their homes entirely, and many former homeowners 
now have to rent.  As a result, the already competitive rental housing 
 
41 
 
 
market in this region simply is squeezed.  We  just don’t have the number 
of homes that we need that people can afford. 
 
According to the National Low Income Housing Coalition’s 
Out of Reach report from this year, New Jersey is the fourth most expensive 
state in the nation to live in.  And they did that report before the data came 
in -- how Sandy impacted those communities, county by county.  So we’re 
looking forward to seeing that data later in the year. 
 
Unfortunately, the Christie Administration requested less 
CDBG-DR money for renters than what we knew was actually needed.  The 
State’s original request to HUD would have allowed only 25 percent of the 
funds to be used to address rental housing needs.  While the plan was 
changed to require the State to use a third of the allocation towards rental 
housing needs, it is still much less than what we know that we needed.  So 
we urge you to help ensure that second-round plan amendments for 
additional CDBG-DR -- which we expect to come out in a moment -- be 
used to redress the remaining unmet housing needs of working families, 
seniors, people with disabilities, and other lower income New Jersey 
residents.  We need to be sure that when we rebuild, we do so in a smart 
and resilient way, so that the next time there is a storm like this -- and 
unfortunately we think there will be a next time -- we’re not right back here 
having the same conversation. 
 
So in order to ensure the next tranche of money is properly 
allocated, we think the State needs to make public its most recent data on 
the total post-storm housing, economic, and infrastructure needs, and 
directly compare this data with the remaining unmet housing needs at the 
Census tract level.  The Christie Administration should hold public hearings 
 
42 
 
 
as well as public comment periods prior to submission of the draft second-
round plan amendments so the plan that our State puts forward has the 
most informed and representative input possible. 
 
Further, we’re concerned that some key issues have not been 
effectively addressed to date and urge that they are addressed in the next 
round.  First and foremost, we need much more effective outreach to help 
people who lost their homes, both renters and homeowners, as well as 
business, so that Sandy victims can learn about the programs and resources 
that can help them. 
 
I don’t know about you all, but I haven’t seen one billboard or 
television ad that tells people how they can actually be stronger than the 
storm.  How about an 800 number that people can call to get help, or even 
promote the 2-1-1 system?  Additionally, a portion of New Jersey’s pending 
CDBG-DR allocation should be used to increase the number of housing 
counselors who work with community-based organizations to work where 
people go when they have needs.  Our members have HUD-certified and 
trained counselors, people who are experts in helping folks in difficult 
situations navigate programs and services, many of which are complicated 
and complex.  And they are located in the affected communities.  Those 
folks are on the front lines of dealing with housing needs, and they are 
exceptionally well-positioned to help people in their communities get the 
assistance they need.  Instead, people are being asked to go to housing 
resource centers.  And they’re only helping folks if they are a homeowner 
applying for the RREM program.  If they’re a renter and they don’t know 
where to go, there is really nobody available to help them.  So we think that 
needs to be resolved in the next tranche of money. 
 
43 
 
 
 
Finally, the State needs to do more to address the housing crisis 
overall.  The Christie Administration should create a significant pool of 
funding -- $500 million -- to support a variety of affordable and mixed-
income housing developments, both rental and for sale.  The current 
programs, although well-intentioned, are still inadequate to address the dire 
need for homes in Sandy-impacted areas and in the surrounding 
communities.  We know that folks from Monmouth are looking to move 
into places in Mercer County because there is just nowhere they can afford 
to live where they used to live.  So even though Mercer is not an affected 
community -- affected county -- they don’t qualify for the nine most 
affected counties -- that housing stock is really being disproportionately 
impacted. 
 
In addition to best using Federal funds, there is a lot that New 
Jersey can do to address the housing needs of Sandy victims.  We can use 
the New Jersey Housing Trust Fund to rehabilitate and build new homes 
instead of using it to back fill the budget every year.  We can prevent the 
Governor from taking $160 million in Municipal Housing Trust Funds 
from towns that are trying to address the needs for affordable housing in 
their own town.  Eighty million of that $160 million that has been at stake 
is based in the nine hardest-hit counties.  We heard the Governor, and we 
believed him when he said that he would help families and businesses that 
were harmed.  I can’t understand why he would then try to take money 
that’s dedicated specifically to helping those folks create homes in their 
community. 
 
Last, we want you to also help ensure that the Public Trust 
Doctrine, which makes public access to the waterfront a right for all New 
 
44 
 
 
Jerseyans, is enforced.  Unfortunately, the Governor’s recent policies have 
curtailed public access regulations and made it more difficult for residents 
to reach our shoreline.  I’m from Massachusetts originally.  I’ve lived in 
New Jersey my entire adult life, but I still can’t grasp that we have to pay 
for people to go to the beach.  It’s just one those things I kind of can’t get 
past. 
 
We know that from beaches along the Jersey Shore to the 
Hackensack River, and all along the coastline in between, it is becoming 
harder for folks to reach the water’s edge.  As billions of dollars -- not just 
from taxpayers here, but from folks across the country -- are pumped into 
our state, we ought to be trying to implement policies that expand 
opportunity for all of our state’s residents to access our rebuilt and 
replenished coastline.  Money for restoration and recovery should be 
conditioned on public access.  That way when we restore the shore, and the 
Ironbound and parts of Bergen County, we do it for anybody. 
 
So we thank you for your attention today. 
 
I want to turn the mike over to Simone. 
S I M O N E   D A N N E C K E R:  Hi.  How are you? 
 
I’m here on a more personal level. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And your name is, ma’am? 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  Simone Dannecker.  I’m sorry. 
 
It starts off, I’ve lived in Union Beach for 43 years -- my entire 
life.  I grew up right on Brook Ave., where all the homes were decimated.  I 
now live three blocks up, where I was residing when Superstorm Sandy hit-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Move your mike over a little bit.   
 
45 
 
 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  --taking on almost three feet of water in 
my house.  Of course we had to begin the process of gutting the home prior 
to receiving any payout from the insurance companies.  Again, we decided 
to start the work, take what savings we had, and get to work to get the 
house rebuilt.  I was faced with a husband who, at 45 years old at the time, 
needed a double hip replacement in October.  So we decided to get the 
house back together. 
 
I am now fighting my mortgage company to stay in the house.  
We became behind on mortgage payments because what we had we were 
putting into the house.  Right now I’m working with Affordable Housing 
Alliance to stay in my home and keep my home.  All the work has been 
done.  We’re applying for grants to have the home lifted.  In the meantime, 
the mortgage company has me in court, trying to take the house away now 
that all the work has been completed. 
 
We’re still in a position where we have to lift the house seven 
feet above sea level.  So the house has been put back together so that my 
husband can go in, have his hip replacements done.  And I am just fighting 
and fighting.  This is paperwork of no red tape.  This is applying for grants.  
This is applying for numerous modifications with my mortgage company.  
One month after my mortgage company decided to take me to court, they 
sold my mortgage.  I have money tied up in the new mortgage company for 
my insurance claim, telling me they will issue final payment when they find 
out the status of whether or not I’m keeping my home. 
 
I just feel like everything has paperwork involved.  I work a 
part-time job at a bank.  I’m a teller.  I work another part-time job filling 
 
46 
 
 
out applications, and grants, and paperwork to try to get us to stay in our 
home. 
 
My other main concern is that we are in a town where there 
were 2,336 homes before the Storm.  Fifty-two homes were taken away the 
night of the Storm -- totally gone, knocked down.  Twenty-two of them 
were on one street, which was Brook Ave.  We’re now faced with--  Three 
hundred homes have been knocked down in our neighborhood alone, and 
there are still 100 that need to be knocked down.  And FEMA has recently 
backed out of our township, saying they’re not knocking the next 100 
houses down, they’ll have to find some other funding for that. 
 
With that being said, we are living in a mold-invested 
neighborhood, 
where 
homes 
are 
mold-ridden. 
 
It’s 
become 
an 
environmental hazard right in our own neighborhood.  I’m left with:  Do I 
fight to keep this mortgage?  Do I fight to keep the home that I lived in and 
raised my kids in for the last 18 years, or do I walk away?  Do I let them 
have it and walk away?  It’s a very emotional thing to deal with on a daily 
basis.  It really takes away from your well-being. 
 
We’re left with:  Can we afford to pay the taxes now that all the 
houses are gone?  Who is going to get hit with this tax burden?  We are, 
because our home is left standing.  We’ll be a taxpayer.  I’m on a 50 by 100 
lot in this little town paying $7,000 a year in property tax.  Yesterday I got 
a letter from the town, assessors will be out within the next two weeks to 
reassess our properties to figure out where we should be with paying taxes.  
I just don’t--  We have the Chief of Police in our town earning $168,000 -- 
we’re one square mile -- salary.  But yet, they want to raise my taxes.  
Because now, with over 900 homes that were flooded, 600 homes that are 
 
47 
 
 
supposed to come down, we are--  In the beginning, Union Beach made the 
news, made the headlines -- all the help we needed.  We have gotten more 
help from nonprofit organizations like Gateway Church and people right 
within our town -- UB Strong -- I’m sure you have all heard of this 
organization.  They’re doing more for our little town than the State is.  The 
State has got us, again, wrapped up in so much paperwork.  It consumes 
your life, it really does. 
 
You talk about programs available.  We had one local business 
in town where our revenue came from, which was Jakeabob’s on the Bay.  
This poor woman has applied for a $50,000 EDA grant.  For over two 
months she has been tied up in paperwork.  All she is trying--  She 
employed 74 people in our little town of 2,300 homes.  Now we have over 
50 people from her business collecting unemployment because of red tape 
and paperwork.  She’s dealing with a Mr. Constable, from the State of New 
Jersey, who is supposed to help her with this paperwork.  And she, again, is 
met with, “We need more paperwork.”  I mean, it’s ridiculous.  I mean, if 
we’re working-class, blue-collar citizens, and we’ve contributed to our taxes 
and our property taxes, why do we have to be caught up in this red tape?  
Why can’t it be, “Prove your residency, prove you own the home, and let’s 
get it moving”?  I mean, we’re just, again, so caught up in the bureaucracy 
of red tape. 
 
You get so many different advisors when you get on a phone 
call.  Never once have I spoken to the same person.  And you get pushed 
along and pushed along.  And you don’t understand what it’s doing to 
homeowners mentally, physically, and emotionally.  And I really hope that 
you come up with a solution that helps people through this. 
 
48 
 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  I really appreciate the fact 
that you are here.  Someone asked me before we began, what is it that we 
hope to accomplish here?  And what I responded with was that there are 
things that are happening across the state that we do not know about.  We 
see the commercials and we read what’s in the paper, but we don’t really 
know what’s going on at the ground level.  We don’t know that there is a 
business that employed a large percentage -- that employed 74 people in the 
community, and now they’re unemployed.  And we hear numbers about 
unemployment across the state, but we don’t hear about how it really 
reflects back into a community. 
 
And I empathize with what it is you’re going through.  Most of 
us--  Many of us get calls every day about these things, and we’re trying to 
do the best that we can.  But hearing it from you, and having this 
information to go back and take it to those individuals who are in positions 
to help move things along, makes it more real.  So I appreciate the fact that 
you’re here.  And just know that we’re going to do the best that we can.  
We’re going to take your information back, and we’re going to make sure 
that something is done and that you are heard. 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  Well, I hope so.  Because, again, 
September 10 I go back to court to decide my fate with a mortgage 
company who fought with me for years over a modification of paperwork.  
“Submit again.  The State has a new program.  Maybe you will qualify.”  I 
submit and, “You’re a day late.  You don’t qualify.  Submit again.”  I hear 
of all these new programs the State offers for people like myself, but when 
you apply through your mortgage company they’re not aware.  They are 
really not aware of the clarity of these programs.  I’m fighting now for a 
 
49 
 
 
year-and-a-half to stay in a home where I sit and wonder, “Do I even want 
to be in this community anymore?” 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Assemblyman. 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN GUSCIORA:  Thank you for your powerful 
testimony. 
 
I’m wondering if Staci could help compile the red tape you 
speak about?  I think the Committee -- it might be helpful to see what a 
typical homeowner has to file, what kind of paperwork they have to go 
through.  Because we hear a lot about red tape, but we’d like to see what 
that red tape is. 
 
MS. BERGER:  Absolutely.  We’ve actually-- 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  It’s all right here. 
 
MS. BERGER:  Assemblyman-- 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  I have seven different applications for 
State programs to keep my home.  Every one has--  I am a very particular 
person. 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN GUSCIORA:  It looks it. 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  I have all my ducks in a row.  My 
husband is a self-employed contractor.  He was out of work for 10 weeks 
with double hip replacement.  But we’re doing what we have to do to get 
by.  I don’t get State assistance.  I don’t ask anybody for anything.  I have 
teenage kids who work full-time jobs, and go to college and go to school.  
We are the typical hard-working, blue-collar, American family who ask for 
nothing.  But now that I’m trying to--  I was involved in predatory lending.  
That’s what’s started this whole progress of this mortgage.  And they just--  
Every time I try to get involved in a program to help me out of this mess--  
 
50 
 
 
Now they’re telling me I owe $320,000 on a house that’s in a 
(indiscernible) community.  This house isn’t worth $150,000 right now.  I 
am doing them a favor by staying in that property.  They ought to rent me 
that house for $500 a month until they get their (expletive deleted) 
together and figure out what they’re going to do. 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN GUSCIORA:  What part of it is tied up with 
your experience with the insurance companies? 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  That’s a whole other nightmare.  The 
insurance company is just -- again, paperwork.  Submit a contract.  I went 
through the insurance company.  My husband is a contractor.  That’s why 
we were able to get our property done and turned around quick.  We knew 
he needed surgery.  We got the property done.  And then it just became, 
“Your husband could be the contractor on the job, because you’re a licensed 
New Jersey State contractor with a bank account and everything you need 
to be licensed contractor.  Go ahead and do your own work on your home.”  
I got half way into that work, and had about $25,000 invested, and I got a 
letter from the mortgage company, “Because of the status of your loan, we 
are not going to allow you to be the contractor on the job.  Get a contractor 
in there and get the work done by somebody else, and cease all work.”  So I 
did that.  I got a contractor.  But still, I have $25,000 out of my pocket.  
“And you want your mortgage payment?”  It  just doesn’t make sense.  If I 
was a renter and doing the work, I would be reimbursed.  This is the 
mortgage company’s house; this is not my house.  I don’t own it. 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN GUSCIORA:  And is the insurance company 
paying 100 percent of your claim? 
 
51 
 
 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  I kind of rushed through the claim.  We 
got a horrible assessment of damage.  And, again, being in the situation my 
husband was in -- self-employed -- I didn’t know where our income was 
going to come from.  I took the settlement.  It was a measly $26,000 
settlement, but I had to take it.  My mother came in during the Storm to 
help out and clean out all the debris. 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN GUSCIORA:  Based on the $26,000 
settlement, what is your estimate of what 100 percent of the claim would 
have been? 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  Probably about $50,000 or more.  I 
mean, it was the whole entire downstairs of my home. 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN GUSCIORA:  I hear more and more that the 
flood is-- 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  I had to--  Now I am kicking myself.  Can 
I get an attorney and fight this, and go back and get what I deserve?  
Probably.  But who has time for that?  Who really has time. 
 
MS. BERGER:  That’s one of the reasons we’ve asked for the 
State to really look at providing continuing, qualified housing counselors 
who know the various programs, who could look at somebody in a 
predatory lending situation and say, “What you really need to do is X, Y, 
and Z, and not just go through the RREM program.”  The RREM program 
counselors are only trained in how to deal with that RREM program. 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  And they’re not even trained in-- 
 
MS. BERGER:  We’ve asked for guidelines. 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  They’re really not. 
 
52 
 
 
 
MS. BERGER:  We’ve seen letters from folks who have been 
turned down for the RREM program, so we’ve asked for guidelines.  There 
are no program guidelines to my knowledge that are publicly available.  And 
if you all could help by asking Mr. Constable for those program guidelines, 
that would be great.  Folks are getting letters saying, “You’ve been 
disqualified for the program because either your damage is not significant 
enough, you make too much money, or there is some other disqualifying 
reason.  You have the right to appeal.”  But you don’t know what the 
disqualifying reason is. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Your story is a horror story.  There is no 
question about it.  And as Chairwoman Spencer indicated, we’re going to be 
forwarding this information to the appropriate parties and saying, “Why is 
the State--” 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  Well, I hope you forward it on a personal 
level so that-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, yes, yes.  “Why is the State not 
doing--” 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  --September 10 my fate is not decided by 
some mortgage company. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Why is the State not doing it’s job for 
you?  You’re being treated horribly. 
 
With that being said, New Jersey Television is here today.  I’d 
like to nominate this for “Kean in Your Corner.”  This needs more exposure 
on public television and to the people of New Jersey.  So if you’d bring this 
back to Mr. Kean, we’d very much appreciate it. 
 
53 
 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER FROM AUDIENCE:  That’s News 
12.  We’re (indiscernible).  (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, all right.  Well, let us make a-- 
 
MS. BERGER:  The thing is, “Kean in Your Corner”--  He 
would do nothing but these shows.  You’re going to hear Lee Ann’s story in 
a minute, and that’s going to be a horror story too. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, let us call him after this hearing, 
and let’s see if we can get some public exposure on this nightmare and get 
the State of New Jersey to do it’s job. 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  I have 25 days to meet with my mortgage 
company in court again, and they will decide my fate at that point -- if, 
after $50,000 worth of work done on their home, I get to stay or I’m going 
to have a sheriff’s sale to get out.  So I really hope you put some exposure--  
I really hope somebody-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Have you had an adjournment yet? 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  No. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Everybody is entitled to an adjournment. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  At least one. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  At least one. 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  Well, I’m being represented by the 
Housing Alliance in Eatontown -- through the legal services through them.  
I don’t know that I even want an adjournment.  I need to move on in my 
life.  I really need to know where I’m at. 
 
And real quick on an insurance issue -- I want you to know that 
that little restaurant in our town on the Bay paid $44,000 in premiums.  
She was going to come with me today -- $44,000 in premiums in one year, 
 
54 
 
 
and they offered her a $10,000 settlement because it’s wind-driven water, 
which becomes a wind.  It’s a nightmare.  And if somebody--  This woman 
has stepped up to our town, and given, and offered so much.  She really 
needs help. 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN GUSCIORA:  Unfortunately, the State of 
New Jersey does not mandate that insurance companies bargain in good 
faith.  And there is a bill in the Legislature, and I hope all of us redouble our 
efforts to make that a reality. 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  Thank you for your time. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
L E E   A N N   N E W L A N D:  Good afternoon. 
 
I had to write my comments so I wouldn’t forget what we were 
going to say. 
 
My name is Lee Ann Newland.  My husband John Lambert and 
I lived in Shark River Hills, New Jersey, a picturesque waterside community 
in Neptune Township.  It is important for you to know who we are in order 
to understand why we are here today.  We are both music educators.  We 
have two college-age daughters.  We live a comfortable and very modest 
lifestyle.  Paying our mortgage, taxes, and tuition bills for our girls, as well 
as being responsible members of our community, are things that are 
important to us.  We have never relied on any government programs.  Our 
cars average 11 years old.  We run a non-profit music organization that 
provides music instruction for children in underserved areas of the Bronx, as 
well as a summer music program. 
 
We were asked to speak briefly about our lives and experiences 
Post-Sandy.  No words can truly describe what our life has been like over 
 
55 
 
 
the last 10 months.  We thank you for the opportunity to share our story, 
and we thank you for hearing all of the stories and voices you are hearing 
today.  We do have slides on PowerPoint as well. 
 
Throughout the past 10 months, while working full-time as 
teachers, we have spent the better part of our free time on the phone, 
writing letters, filing applications, filing appeals, and generally being 
frustrated with all of the above.  We followed the direction of the people 
who were in charge of the many agencies and institutions we were 
introduced to and directed towards in an attempt to clean up and return to 
our home.  Our files, which include one copy of each application, appeal, 
letter, response, follow-up, etc. weighs over 10 pounds.  While oftentimes 
frustrated, we followed leads, did Internet searches, made phone calls, and 
kept the goal of getting back into our home in front of us. 
 
The agencies we list below should be especially lauded for 
providing not only immediate services, but long-term follow up: the 
Township of Neptune, the Red Cross, Salvation Army, AmeriCorps, 
Volunteer Lawyers for Justice, Hope and Healing, the Affordable Housing 
Alliance who also paved the way for us to speak here today, numerous local 
church organizations, the Mennonites who provided workers to demolish 
the interior of our home and many homes in Shark River Hills, and the 
many good Samaritans coming from as far away as Cherry Hill, New Jersey, 
knocking on our door to ask how they could help.  We also reached out to 
the offices of Senators Beck and Buono, and Assemblypersons Smith, 
Angelini, and Casagrande when FEMA decided to discontinue our support 
after two months and we needed someone to help us convince them we 
were still homeless. 
 
56 
 
 
 
While numerous organizations helped not only us but members 
of our community, it is necessary to call out those who fell short of their 
responsibility to the working middle class who fell through the cracks.  The 
Department of Community Affairs tops this list.  Following quickly behind 
would be the Department of Banking and Insurance, and the Office of our 
Governor. 
 
The Department of Community Affairs RREM grant was 
advertised as a promise for those in our income bracket, with homes having 
substantial damage as well as meeting other criteria, to help fill the gap 
between flood insurance and the moneys needed to rebuild our homes.  As 
the application process was underway, the terms of the grant seemed to 
change.  We received additional correspondence prior to the awarding of 
the money stating that only some people would receive funds, but those 
with the greatest need would be considered first.  On July 8, the day grant 
recipients were to be notified, John and I received a letter stating that the 
grant money was no longer available and that we were indefinitely wait-
listed in case more funds became available.  This grant was our last hope.  A 
more efficient way to administer this grant money would have been to 
divide the first round of grants evenly among the applicants, and when 
more became available, look at those who still needed more help.  A random 
selection of applicants was not the way to handle this, as so many situations 
vary from family to family.  More people could be on the way to being back 
in their homes, but most of us sit perplexed, having to make decisions we 
weren't prepared to make. 
 
The Department of Insurance and Banking, while providing 
counselors at local FEMA offices set up following the Storm, has done little 
 
57 
 
 
to monitor the activities of the insurance companies doing business in this 
state.  To date, we have paid our mortgage on time each month, as well as 
our taxes and insurance, on a property that continues to be uninhabitable.  
We are not alone.  Our insurance company, Fidelity Insurers, has denied 
our appeal and countered engineers reports that have been provided by 
sending adjustors to say there is nothing wrong with our home.  While this 
Department should certainly be concerned with the insurers, equally 
disturbing to us are the banks -- in our case CitiMortgage -- who continue to 
collect municipal taxes from us despite the fact that our Township has 
suspended tax collection on the local level until the homes which are vacant 
are able to be inhabited again.  This is a crime. 
 
The recent TV ad campaign depicting life at the shore as back 
to normal is highly disturbing.  Life is not normal, and every night there are 
new stories on the news of the forgotten residents and townships that dot 
the New Jersey coastline.  Yes, tourism is important to the economy of the 
state and the recovery of businesses.  However, watching our own Governor 
on TV with his family pretending that all is well all over the shore makes us 
sad.  Perhaps local business owners along the shore should be the stars of 
these ads, as opposed to our Governor who should hold accountable the 
agencies claiming to help the residents in their recovery.  We reached out to 
the Governor’s Office to stop by and take a look at our home when Mr. 
Obama was visiting Asbury Park in June.  To date, there has been no reply 
to my letter from the Governor’s Office.  The Mayor of our Township has 
also stated that Mr. Christie has not yet paid a visit to Neptune.  I guess 
because we are not Seaside Heights or Wildwood, we are not important. 
 
58 
 
 
 
Having been fighting our fight so long now, there is something 
else that needs to be said.  New Jersey was given funds to provide case 
managers to help families -- to help them navigate the system.  Where are 
those case managers?  John and I made calls separately, and after numerous 
hours of being on hold by telephone, some very nice volunteers explained 
that because we were not high priority cases -- we had employment and a 
place to live -- we would be placed on a waiting list.  We are educated 
people and could figure out how to maneuver through our circumstances.  
But what about the people who have language issues, the elderly, and others 
who struggle?  Just as we were, many of our neighbors were also going hit or 
miss with the information that was being disseminated.  We all could have 
used help.  At the very least, a case worker per town should be assigned so 
that residents could have someone to ask for help.  Funding for this is out 
there, but not being used appropriately.  This could be a small ounce of 
hope for people who are on the verge of giving up. 
 
We had been denied on appeal for any additional funds from 
our flood insurance and FEMA to rebuild.  The amount we were given in 
flood insurance payout was not half of the estimated elevation and repair 
costs on our home, which exceeds $220,000.  To date, we have paid our 
mortgage of $2,500 a month, and storage costs of $300 a month, and can 
no longer justify these large expenses.  We have placed our home on the 
market in the hopes of being able to satisfy our mortgage between our flood 
insurance settlement and sale of the property, without having to go through 
a foreclosure process due to the decreased property value versus what we 
owe on our current mortgage.  Our home remains uninhabitable, and no 
further help is on the horizon. 
 
59 
 
 
 
We are exhausted, and frustrated, and feel let down mostly by 
our flood insurer, as well as the false hope provided by the agencies working 
for the State of New Jersey.  We hope our story can turn the spotlight from 
the beaches and boardwalks to the people who are being ignored only a few 
blocks west of the Atlantic. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You’re going to give us a copy of that? 
(affirmative response) 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for coming today. 
 
Staci, I’m serious about calling “Kean in Your Corner.”  This 
needs exposure. 
 
MS. BERGER:  I’m with you.  The thing is that people are 
saying, “This stuff is on the news a lot.”  What we need is for--  We actually 
need you guys to call some of the Department heads in here and say, “We 
heard this story.  Why is this happening?  How can we help you fix it?”  
Because I agree with you.  It would be great to have a bunch of investigative 
reporters helping folks navigate the system. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right, right, right. 
 
MS. BERGER:  But this is a systemic problem, and it’s the way 
that the State designed the action plan. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’d be happy to send the letter.  Give 
me the facts on both of the ladies.  Chairwoman Spencer and I will jointly 
draft a letter saying, “What’s going on?” 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Certainly. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  “Why are these people being treated so 
badly?” 
 
60 
 
 
 
MS. BERGER:  This is two stories.  We could be here for a 
week. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Certainly.  In the paper 
today there is an article about how, in New Jersey, we lost close to 11,000 
jobs.  And we don’t talk about where the jobs are -- have been lost. 
 
MS. BERGER:  Fifty of them were in Union Beach. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  In Union Beach, and so-- 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  In one little town. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN 
SPENCER: 
 
One 
little 
town 
-- 
unemployment. 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  And her getting her grants through and 
getting back up and running is going to employ 50 people right in our very 
own town. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Like the Senator said, get us 
that information.  We will write a letter. 
 
Thank you. 
 
MS. BERGER:  Great.  Thank you all very much for your time 
and your attention. 
 
MS. DANNECKER:  Thank you for your time. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up, we have Kevin Walsh, from the Fair Share Housing 
Center. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And I think he’s also with AC NAACP, 
the Atlantic City NAACP. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  The Atlantic City NAACP.  
Very good. 
 
61 
 
 
L I N D A   G.   S T E E L E:  Good morning. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Good morning.  Remember 
to give us your name, please.  The amplification is with the bigger mike. 
 
MS. STEELE:  My name is Linda Steele.  I’m the President of 
the Atlantic City NAACP.  I’m a resident of Galloway, but I’m a 
homeowner here in Atlantic City.  I have a duplex in Atlantic City. 
 
Today I want to talk to you--  I wrote down my brief notes 
because I want to tell you--  The previous testimony was very nerve-
wracking, and I could relate to it on a number of different levels. 
 
The devastation from Hurricane Sandy is being felt by many 
families in Atlantic City.  The media gave high visibility to many of the 
affluent shore communities, but little note to the devastation in Atlantic 
City.  The Governor and President visited locations like Brigantine, Long 
Beach Island, Seaside Heights, but Atlantic City was hardly mentioned.  
Residential homeowners, as well as renters, have been displaced, and their 
return is still uncertain. 
 
Atlantic City has a large senior citizen home base and an even 
higher rental population.  We’re an unusual city because we do have more 
rental units, more renters, than we have homeowners.  Many senior citizens 
who have spent their lives buying homes and living here in Atlantic City -- 
who are mortgage-free -- had to vacate their storm-damaged homes because 
of the lack of insurance, possibly, and the complicated funding process. 
 
Landlords did not have the necessary insurance coverage and 
also lacked the resources to do the necessary renovations.  These impacted 
properties will certainly have a negative effect or impact on the City’s tax 
collection.  And as casinos, with their high-powered lawyers, continue to 
 
62 
 
 
win tax appeals, the burden of taxes falls to the homeowner.  And that will 
surely impact Atlantic City even further. 
 
In the early casino era, many of the low-income housing units 
were displaced.  Pitney Village was 33 units.  It was displaced to make room 
for the Outlet shops.  Shore Terrace -- we referred to as six bedrooms -- they 
had up to six bedrooms -- those properties were raised; 140 were raised.  
And now the elephant for the Taj Mahal sits there.  Shore Terrace, I 
believe, had 72 units.  That was raised.  And Hope VI will be built on that 
property.  But it has been more than 20 years that that property laid 
vacant. 
 
These things I share with you because the people who have 
been impacted by Sandy have no place to go.  Many of our neighboring 
communities -- Ventnor, Margate, Long Port, Linwood -- they did not have 
low-income housing.  They did not have a lot of moderate housing units.  
And so as these -- over 550 units have been raised in Atlantic City, and few 
of them have been replaced. 
 
And so now that we have been impacted by Sandy, there are 
few places for people to go.  And many people are still living in mold-
infested properties because they are afraid to report their landlords for fear 
that the City will determine them to be uninhabitable housing, and they 
will have to move to places as far as Camden, Millville, Vineland, and other 
places.  Because in the early years, when we were displacing people, they 
were going to places like Galloway, Absecon, and other neighboring 
communities, and many of them have now instituted moratoriums on 
multiple housing.  And so they can’t be displaced to those areas that are 
 
63 
 
 
familiar to them.  They would have to leave the Atlantic City area and be 
commuters, and we’re not a commuter community.  We’re not used to that. 
 
Hurricane Sandy has severely impacted the housing market for 
low- and middle-income, and particularly minorities.  Anyone can ride 
through the city and see the visible tarps still on roofs that have not been 
addressed. 
 
Presently the Atlantic City NAACP is supporting Southeast 
Inlet residents who are being displaced to make room for the improvements 
around Revel.  And I don’t think there is anybody in Atlantic City who 
would disagree with improving the landscape of this city, but there has to 
be balance.  And at this point, you have low-rise (sic) people who are being 
displaced with no place to go.  And so the devastation of Sandy has just 
exacerbated an already very, very low and minimal housing market. 
 
Atlantic City--  I was born and raised here.  I worked 40 years 
in Atlantic City.  I am a resident of Galloway, but Atlantic City is in my 
blood and in my heart.  And what I say to you is that the complications of 
the process for many of the senior citizens who we tried to work with and 
deal with is just overwhelming.  When people are deemed not to be eligible, 
few of them have the wherewithal to continue the process.  The ladies here 
before you just previous are young people compared to many of the seniors 
who are going through this process, who probably are widowed or widowers, 
and they don’t have the wherewithal to continue the process.  There is no 
one to really help them through it.  And so this whole scenario is going to 
play a devastating part on Atlantic City as a whole, and it may very well be 
the demise of Atlantic City. 
 
64 
 
 
 
When we took on gaming, we thought gaming would be a 
panacea; it would be helpful.  But somewhere along the line we lost our 
focus.  The CRDA was so wonderful in helping with housing because that 
was a focus of theirs initially.  But now that’s not a focus any longer.  We 
have to figure out what the balance is, because Atlantic City is too small to 
fail.  If we could come together -- legislators, City, and State -- and 
understand that there is room at the table for everybody--  And while 
gaming is a wonderful thing for an industry, you have to balance it. 
 
Housing is a priority.  And the poor and unfortunate are always 
going to be among us.  But if we do what is right, and we do what is just 
humane, then we should be able to make this partnership work in a better 
way.  Because it is not working well for the people in Atlantic City, and 
actually for the state.  Because it’s always been the focus to--  We now have 
the tourism district which separates us even further.  These things are not 
beneficial all the time for residents, and so the residents need to have your 
attention, they need to have your support.  Because it’s the people who vote 
for you, not the corporations.  Those people live someplace else, they come 
from someplace else, and they don’t have the residents at heart. 
 
So the kids are being affected because they are displaced from 
their homes.  We’re bussing them into Atlantic City, and we don’t know 
when they’re coming back.  These things impact everything.  Funding for 
schools, the tax base--  We’re going to have a lot of abandoned properties.  
That’s going to send the rate up even further.  People will not be able to live 
here because we don’t -- we have not supported and done the right thing.  
We have been concerned about other things.  And I’m asking you to listen 
to these people today -- listen to us and understand that it’s not us against 
 
65 
 
 
them, or we’re against you, or you’re against us.  But we have to start 
communicating better and understanding that what affects one, affects 
everybody.  And if this ship sinks, we’re all going down in it together.  It’s 
not going to be--  Some people may be able to go out of town and go back 
to some other place they lived before, but a lot of us are not going to be 
able to do that.  We’re stuck here.  This is where we’re from.  This is where 
we live.  This is our home.  This is where we want to be. 
 
And so we ask you to look at your regs and look at these 
guidelines and things, and streamline things so that the everyday person can 
understand them and don’t need an attorney to help interpret everything. 
 
And so I really thank you for your time, and I hope that you’ll 
take the testimony that you hear today to heart, because it affects people in 
such a way. 
 
On a personal note, I am a homeowner in Atlantic City.  I have 
a duplex.  And I’m stuck -- I feel like a hostage -- between my insurance 
company and my mortgage company.  I started out this process.  I didn’t 
even want to apply for anything because I’ve been blessed.  And I thought I 
had resources.  I thought that there was somebody else who needed 
something more than I did, because I have a home in Galloway.  But at the 
end of the day, I’m trying to do the right thing.  I’m trying to restore the 
property so that my tenant can get back in.  Everything was stripped on the 
first floor.  And in the midst of the process, my mortgage got sold, and now 
my money is hung up with the second mortgage company.  And they want 
to dole it out to you.  The contractors have done their part.  I made a 
contract with somebody because I didn’t know what the insurance 
companies were going to do.  I didn’t know they were going to piddle it out 
 
66 
 
 
to me.  If you come and see -- you send an appraiser, you come and see -- 
we have the same interest at the end of the day.  You want the property 
fixed up; because I have a mortgage on it, I want it fixed up so that I can get 
a tenant in it.  And I’m doing my part.  But I’m struggling with this 
insurance company, trying to figure out, “What else do you need?  You sent 
your assessors down there.  They looked at the property.  They saw what it 
started with -- the renovations that were -- the stripping and the overhaul -- 
and now it’s just about at the end.”  And if I had my druthers--  I can’t even 
begin to tell you -- I consider myself a Christian, but I’m telling you, some 
days it doesn’t feel like that, because these people will push you to the 
brink. (laughter) 
 
I want to tell you, it’s not easy.  I’m frustrated, and I don’t even 
live there.  I can’t even imagine how these people feel who are out of their 
houses, who can’t get any relief, who can’t get anybody to understand.  Just 
take what they’re saying to heart because it’s serious.  It changes your whole 
life. 
 
Thank you. 
 
I want to introduce Mr. Young.  He is one of the NAACP 
members, and he has his own story. 
S T E V E N   L.   Y O U N G:  Thank you. 
 
I’m Steve Young, and I live in Venice Park, in Atlantic City.  
And I am a homeowner here and pay a lot of taxes. 
 
One thing I want to say is that doing this whole process -- this 
process is very, very hard.  And it’s almost inhumane the way you’re treated 
during this whole process. 
 
67 
 
 
 
Being a victim of Sandy, I did have to evacuate and leave my 
home.  And during that process--  You know, you bring the National Guard 
to your house.  They came rolling down the street with trucks to evacuate.  
And when it’s all done -- when the water is settled, there is no one knocking 
on your door for an assessment of how you’re doing, how you’re feeling.  
Should you be in a house with mold? (indiscernible) feel sick?  These types 
of things are very serious.  So that, I think, should have been the first thing. 
 
When you apply for funding, isn’t there some type of 
assessment, or are you just going by what you think the numbers are?  Is 
there actually a door-to-door assessment of how people feel and what 
they’re going through?  I don’t think so.  I didn’t have it; we didn’t have it. 
 
Atlantic City was hit very hard.  I mean, we hear about 
Hurricane Katrina -- New Orleans; you hear about Brigantine and other 
cities.  But Atlantic City -- you may have seen in those other cities -- you 
saw a house be flat and blown away through the water.  But we have what 
you call internal bleeding of our housing stock, where it’s half-empty from the 
water and the cut-outs, and the mold that’s infecting us--  I mean, if we 
don’t do something about this epidemic of mold right now, and the people 
don’t know -- don’t have a place to go about it -- you may have to 
quarantine some areas because it’s that serious, especially if people have 
children.  They’re too afraid to report certain things.  So this is a very 
serious thing that we need to really look into. 
 
Taxes -- moratorium.  Atlantic City -- we didn’t have a 
moratorium on our taxes, because most people didn’t think we were that 
seriously hit.  But when that storm was talked about all over the world for 
all those days, it said it was coming to Atlantic City.  It didn’t say these 
 
68 
 
 
other cities.  It basically targeted Atlantic City.  Then when it comes to the 
Governor and the President coming, they didn’t come to Atlantic City.  We 
should not be affected as homeowners and taxpayers because of an issue 
that’s dealing with the State or the City.  Because we, as property owners, 
are paying our fair share of taxes.  And Atlantic City is very unique because 
we have casinos -- your economic engine towards this entire state.  So we’re 
in a very bad situation.  We were hit by the economy.  Then after the 
economy, we were hit with re-vals.  So there was reassessment of properties, 
which was very high at the time.  Then after that we were hit with 
Hurricane Sandy.  So we’re in a more serious situation than most cities if 
you actually talk to the people and open up your minds to see what’s going 
on, and get down to the level where the people are being affected.  I mean, 
let’s not just stay in the State House and these good jobs that you have.  
Get down and feel what the people are going through, what the children are 
going through.  These meetings should be held in the communities where 
the people who are actually hurt -- whether they’re renters or homeowners -- 
so you can educate them on what to do next. 
 
I went through tons and tons with the insurance company, all 
types of situations with FEMA, mortgage companies--  All that you just 
heard we went through.  And if you don’t have--  You have to actually have 
your own office.  I don’t know how seniors even go through this.  You have 
to actually have your own office with faxes, e-mails, you need this 
paperwork -- getting it -- you have to get it from the mortgage company, 
you have to receive it from your insurance company.  Then you have to 
send it back and forth.  Then the contractors--  It’s a very serious--  And it’s 
 
69 
 
 
almost like a lesson.  We actually have to write a book on what you have to 
go through during this storm. 
 
And the long-term recovery -- it’s going to be a long, long time 
before people in Atlantic City--  Like Ms. Steele spoke about, the taxes are 
very high.  We didn’t have a break in our taxes.  When you didn’t pay your 
taxes in June -- in November they’re coming after you.  There will be a ton 
of foreclosures.  And then there are penalties after that.  And we were 
affected by something that was against our will -- a catastrophe.  And here 
we are -- we’re being fined, we’re being overtaxed, and most people aren’t 
even living in their houses.  So we have a very serious-- 
 
And you can’t see mold.  I actually had to get a certified mold 
inspector -- almost 200 miles away -- to come to my home and tell FEMA, 
the insurance company, and everybody else that I have to leave my home.  
Why?  When you have all these meetings, you have all these things set up; 
but when it comes to getting the help, it’s not there.  So there needs to be a 
change in these programs. 
 
And then you had the Governor raising money, you had Mike 
Vick come here with a check and say, “We’re giving Atlantic City money for 
Sandy relief.”  Where is the money?  With the money that these people 
said they were giving -- and sometimes they give it to the Red Cross and 
other places.  But where is the money -- when you don’t have to go through 
all this red tape?  I mean, if somebody applies for something, and you find 
them -- they’re ineligible, then you let them know.  But right now it’s hard 
to rebuild a house if you don’t have the money.  And who has the gap 
financing after your insurance has given you a few dollars to fix it up?  
Where is the gap financing coming from?  You’re not eligible because your 
 
70 
 
 
insurance gave you the money?  And like she said, we went through it with 
all of these adjusters coming from the mortgage company, the insurance 
company, FEMA, back and forth, in and out of your house.  These are very, 
very serious things that we need to work out.  And also the deadlines for 
applying for some of these grants-- 
 
And I have a serious problem with Washington, too.  For them 
to delay giving any dollar amount to the State of New Jersey--  What was 
that all about?  We didn’t fight enough.  The Governor (indiscernible) his 
part in the fight, but we didn’t fight enough -- you as legislators, as well as 
us as a community.  Because that delay gave the mold time to grow up into 
someone’s system and their bodies.  And that should have never happened.  
So those are serious things we need to work on as a community. 
 
Again, all these abandoned properties -- you’re going to have a 
ton of them -- these foreclosures.  You won’t be able to sell them for--  
People want to leave their homes right now, but they can’t sell them.  You 
can’t sell it because it’s half empty.  You can’t fix it up because you don’t 
have the money.  You can’t pay the taxes because they’re too high.  We 
have hundreds and hundreds of people in that situation right here in 
Atlantic City.  You don’t hear too much about Atlantic City, because people 
want to hear about the casinos and say everything is fine.  But we have 
people who live here.  We have children who go to school here.  And we are 
here, and there is nowhere else to go for some of the people who have been 
here all of their lives.  So I just want you to feel what we’re going through 
and see if you can come up with some of the solutions. 
 
Again, I don’t know if you have a State task force, that’s 
combining your efforts with having some type of case manager, to oversee 
 
71 
 
 
what’s going on internally with the residents and the taxpayers here.  But I 
think that’s one way we need to go -- so somebody can listen and bring it 
back to you if you don’t have the time to go out there yourself. 
 
I just found out after all this time that the County has what 
you call case management services.  So now there is one-stop shopping where 
you can go where they can assist you -- or where the needs are.  I mean, why 
did it take so long for us to find out?  We have to do a better job in 
communication.  And the sad part about it is, you have the resources to do 
it.  All these billions of dollars coming from rebuilding bridges and 
rebuilding the sand--  What about the people’s lives and those resources of 
case management -- one-on-one -- to find out what the needs are for the 
people who live here and for them to stay here? 
 
Again, there are solutions to it.  But you have to hear it from 
the grassroots all the way up.  And we don’t often get the opportunity for 
you guys to hear, as well as Washington.  Because no one can say it like the 
people who are going through it. 
 
I thank you for my time. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
K E V I N   D.   W A L S H:  Thank you, Chairman, Chairwoman, 
members of the Committee. 
 
My name is Kevin Walsh.  I’m with Fair Share Housing Center.  
We’ve been working on the Sandy recovery efforts to make sure they’re fair 
for the past many months soon after the storm hit, and even before the 
HUD notice was put out for the funding.  And I think the issues that Ms. 
Steele and Mr. Young had touched on in Atlantic City are emblematic of 
 
72 
 
 
issues going on statewide in ways that are especially harmful to lower-
income communities. 
 
Soon after the Storm hit and the Governor was going around 
speaking about his priorities for recovery from the Storm, he again, and 
again, and again referred to helping homeowners and renters -- I’m sorry, 
helping homeowners and small businesses.  And as an advocate for people 
who very often need to rent, I found that very troubling because a large 
percentage of the population consists of renters.  And I thought it was 
unfair that homeowners would get a step-up there and get priority when 
there was no indication that they were disproportionately affected. 
 
But that has continued throughout.  It continued with the way 
in which the Administration proposed to use the moneys.  The talking 
points from early on actually were reflective of the Administration’s 
policies.  There was a proposal from the State for how it was going to 
allocate money.  And because HUD found that the Administration 
underprojected the needs of renters and overprojected the needs of 
homeowners, there was an effort to--  HUD demanded that the State shift 
$75 million from the homeowner effort -- which, don’t get me wrong, it’s 
needed everywhere, absolutely.  But the needs of lower-income households 
were especially impacted in this storm, and it’s harder for lower-income 
folks to recover.  And so that reflection of the Administration’s policies was 
troubling. 
 
It’s one, though, that’s not just historical.  It’s something that is 
going to play out again as the Federal government sends more money.  And 
what’s really important is that the Legislature, I think, demand that the 
Administration, when it puts together its funding priorities post-Sandy, 
 
73 
 
 
accurately consider the needs of the folks who are impacted, both 
homeowners and renters, and attempt to meet both needs. 
 
Another issue that I want to briefly touch on is the problem of 
transparency.  As an advocate who has been trying to get information, we 
already had to file a couple of lawsuits to get access to information that the 
State would not provide to us in a timely manner.  The State has reserved 
about $70 million for purposes of administration, but seemingly has put 
nothing toward ensuring there is transparency around the information that 
is available; has done seemingly nothing to increase the capacity for the 
State to respond to these needs.  So when we request simple information--  
We recently requested -- because of something I’ll touch on -- information 
about how the RREM program was being managed.  What are the 
guidelines that are used?  What are the people who are making those 
decisions -- what instructions are they given?  And what are the form letters 
available to them to send out?  Because it’s evident they’re using form 
letters.  The response we got is that that simple information -- which 
truthfully should be available on a website and is not something that 
somebody should need to go and file a public records request for when the 
Governor has promised transparency -- we were told it would take us at 
least 30 days to get that information.  Simple stuff that people need in 
order to understand how $1.8 billion is being spent could not be provided 
for 30 days. 
 
The transparency comes out -- the lack of transparency comes 
out also in the way decisions are made.  And we recently received a letter 
from somebody who told us that their application for RREM funding was 
denied.  And the reasons they were given was that there was -- they did not 
 
74 
 
 
sustain, as a result of Superstorm Sandy, a fully verified loss of at least 
$8,000 or have more than 1 foot of water on the first floor “among other 
possible disqualifying factors.”  It goes on to say, “Please be advised that 
proper resolution of this ineligibility determination will lead to eligibility 
only if there are no other reasons to support ineligibility.”  So what folks 
who are being denied these programs are told is, “We denied you.  And it’s 
probably for one of these reasons.  But if it’s not one of those reasons, it’s 
another reason.  Now, you can come in and appeal those reasons, and 
you’re welcome to do so.  But if you appeal those reasons, and we haven’t 
told you what the reasons were that you were actually denied, we might still 
deny you without you ever having a chance to address what the reasons 
were that you were denied.” 
 
Now, there’s merit in getting money out of the door quickly, no 
doubt.  But when people are being treated like this, when there isn’t 
information available beforehand about how these programs are going to be 
administered -- the guidelines are nowhere available about how these 
decisions are being made -- and then to give somebody the opportunity to 
appeal their decision without telling them what the reason was that they 
were denied, it’s like going into court and saying to the judge, “Judge, I was 
injured.”  And the judge says back to you -- and the jury says, “No, you 
lose,” and they don’t ever tell you why.  How could you possibly appeal 
something like that?  And these sorts of decisions are going on again and 
again in--  I’ve just touched on two examples of the lack of transparency and 
the confusion, but there are more. 
 
What’s really scary is that if these problems aren’t corrected, 
we’re going to repeat the mistakes again when the next phase of funding 
 
75 
 
 
comes down.  And the lack of transparency and the general confusion 
you’re seeing right now will not be corrected if there is not a concerted 
effort to do it.  And we could get the HUD notice about the next phase of 
funding any day now.  It could literally come out tomorrow morning at 9:00 
a.m., it could come out a week from now, it could come out two weeks from 
now.  And with the lack of transparency that’s there--  We can comment on 
it, but good luck finding a way to comment in an informed way that 
considers the data that they have.  Because when the notice comes out, and 
you have some questions, and you call up the Department of Community 
Affairs and say, “I’d like to figure out how you’re going to respond to this 
based on your need assessment for renters or based on your concerns about 
people with special needs and what damage they’ve suffered--”  If you call 
up and say, “What has happened to public housing, and what’s the 
information you’re basing your decisions on because I’d like to comment on 
the plan you just put out,” they’re going to tell you it’s going to take 30 
days.  And the comments -- the attempt to influence it is due in seven 
calendar days, not even business days.  And so it’s really important that this 
Committee try to solve some of these issues, put pressure on it, shine light 
on it before the next HUD notice comes out.  The Administration, if it 
chose to, could take two weeks.  It could have a hearing.  HUD doesn’t 
prohibit that.  HUD’s goal is to do it as quickly as the State is comfortable 
doing it.  But this Committee and others could demand that the 
Administration conduct itself in a way that actually acknowledges that 
we’re a democracy rather than these things just happening in a way that 
feels like it’s just coming down from on high with no ability for the 
populous to inform itself, and certainly no real consideration given to the 
 
76 
 
 
decisions that are being made in a way that considers what the public 
wants. 
 
The only changes that were made to the plan were ones that 
HUD demanded.  So there is a way in which--  There were some other 
minor things.  The only meaningful things that were done were things that 
HUD demanded.  The whole seven-day comment period was symbolic.  
There was zero consideration, from what we can tell, given to the actual 
comments that people received. 
 
Where we’re ultimately headed on this, I think, is that there is--  
If something doesn’t change, there is a real possibility of an inequitable 
recovery that leaves a lot of folks behind but gives people making up to 
$200,000 up to $150,000 to fix their homes.  There is a real possibility that 
we’re headed to a place where we have a recovery that let’s a lot of people -- 
that gives money for a lot of infrastructure to towns but doesn’t say to those 
towns, “What are you doing with housing needs?  We’ve got tons of -- 
thousands and thousands -- tens of thousands of displaced people.  Have 
you considered allowing multi-family housing rather than just mansions in 
your town?”  None of that is being asked.  And we have a recovery that is 
helping people in wealthier shore towns put sand back on the beach but not 
increasing public access to those beaches in any way. 
 
We have a real danger in a year -- two years, as we look back on 
this -- that it will be a recovery that tilts more toward elitism and more 
toward exclusion than it does toward fairness, and we need to correct that 
as soon as we can. 
 
Thank you. 
 
77 
 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SCHEPISI:  Mr. Chairman, I do have a 
question. 
 
Kevin, we’ve heard a lot today about rental housing and 
everything else.  How much money do you want?  Because based upon the 
numbers that I have--  And, yes, rental housing is very important in the 
state.  But proportionately, between the number of homeowners and 
renters, what do you think that number is for -- the number--  Just by a 
percentage, how many people who were affected were renters, how many 
were homeowners, based upon your information? 
 
MR. WALSH:  I don’t have that.  I probably could get you that 
in five minutes from my blog.  I don’t have it at my fingertips.  I will tell 
you though that the methodology that the Administration used -- by 
HUD’s own admission initially -- was off.  But the data answer, the specific 
numbers, I don’t have that on my fingertips. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SCHEPISI:  And the reason it’s 
important is, I think, a perspective needs to be put forth there.  The 
numbers that I have for the amount of money being allocated--  Rental 
housing is being allocated at almost half of what the homeowner housing is.  
So for homeowners, there is an allocation of $780,000 (sic).  For rental 
housing-- 
 
MR. WALSH:  It’s $780 million. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SCHEPISI:  I mean $780 million.  For 
rental housing it’s $379 million.  Those are real significant numbers.  I 
mean, we’re not talking about $25 million being allocated for rental 
housing.  We’re talking about almost half-a-billion dollars. 
 
MR. WALSH:  It is. 
 
78 
 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SCHEPISI:  So how much more do you 
need, do you want?  How is this so horrible?  How is it so inequitable? 
 
MR. WALSH:  It’s probably still about $150 million to $200 
million off for renters.  And it’s one thing to emphasize that early on to 
attempt to meet some needs, but it should be corrected later on.  Because 
just look at Atlantic City.  As Ms. Steele said, it’s disproportionately 
renters, it’s disproportionately lower-income compared to many of the other 
communities that were impacted.  And I will tell you that from the clergy 
I’m talking to, from the caseworkers who are on the street, from the people 
who are attempting to meet their needs, there is a real sense of looking 
around and wondering who is coming to help.  And the reason is, I think, 
because there has been an emphasis on the needs of some communities over 
others -- is the perception.  And that’s hard to demonstrate right now.  I 
think as more data becomes available, we’ll have a sense of where funds are 
being allocated.  But there is also, I think, a real perception that there are -- 
that the needs -- and it’s an accurate one -- that the needs of renters have 
been placed second.  And that is true, I think, by virtue of the fact that the 
programs just haven’t been rolled out as quickly as the other programs were.  
And there are problems on both ends.  I don’t want to emphasize that there 
-- that the funding for homeowners should be reduced.  We need more 
money all around in some ways.  But we also have to get the balance right.  
And we also have to recognize that low-income folks who are -- who have 
less of an ability to jump back are disproportionately renters. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SCHEPISI:  I mean, I ask this question 
because as an attorney, as well as being in the Assembly, I’ve actually 
worked with a lot of the affordable housing groups in northern New Jersey 
 
79 
 
 
who have taken advantage of these programs, and have applied for grants, 
and are building a lot of new, affordable housing based upon these moneys 
that are coming in.  So to say that programs haven’t been rolled out, or it’s 
not accessible, or things aren’t occurring I don’t think is wholly accurate.  
Because I think you’re going to see a lot more building than you’ve seen in 
years for those affordable types of programs because of what has been 
allocated because of Sandy.   
 
MR. WALSH:  I think, Assemblywoman, that while it’s correct 
that some of the rental programs have rolled out and decisions have 
recently been made, there is--  The reality is that when those housing 
resources places were opened up--  And by the way, the contract was just 
made available online four months -- for the $60 million effort to manage 
that -- back to the transparency point.  But when folks walked into those 
places, if they were renters they didn’t have any information for them.  If 
they were homeowners, they did.  And that’s a problem, because there is a 
way in which--  A house provides stability to a family.  And the sense that 
somebody is helping or may help someday is the sort of thing that helps 
somebody feel that they can keep fighting.  And one of the problems, I 
think, is that what is being experienced is there is a vision out there that 
there is help on the way.  And for a lot of folks they’re starting to feel like 
that’s not true.  And I think that is true both for homeowners -- especially 
lower-income homeowners who don’t have the resources to borrow from 
family members or others necessarily.  And I think it’s increasingly -- it’s 
even more true for renters.  As the housing market tightens up-- 
 
You know, one of the realities of New Jersey is that as a home 
rule state, towns almost always get to decide what happens, and towns can 
 
80 
 
 
almost always make unreasonable decisions about where housing stock 
should go and shouldn’t go.  So it’s a very conservative notion that the 
market should lead to the supply and that we need to find balance in those 
things.  Our zoning laws absolutely prevent that.  And there is a greater 
need for housing.  One of the reasons why housing prices in New Jersey are 
so high is because municipalities can block development from occurring.  
It’s not that there is demand.  It’s that the demand is being blocked from 
being met by zoning laws.  And take Sandy into that -- step into a place 
where we lose tens of thousands of units, and people’s lives are destabilized, 
and they’re sent out with vouchers to go find a rental unit--  They can’t find 
them.  And the reason is because our supply is too low.  Even right now--  
The Administration, right now, under the policies that it’s put out there, 
they’ll give Brick $100 million to fix its infrastructure without ever asking 
what they’re going to do for lower-income housing.  They just don’t link the 
two, and that’s wrong.  If this Administration is going to invest in a 
municipality’s infrastructure -- whether it be beach or anything else -- it 
should simultaneously say to that municipality, “What are you going to do 
for us?” 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SCHEPISI:  Isn’t Brick compliant 
though? 
 
MR. WALSH:  No. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SCHEPISI:  They weren’t certified?  
They haven’t been compliant? 
 
MR. WALSH:  Not anytime recently.  And it’s not just Brick.  
I’m using Brick, but you can take it to any of the other places that are 
impacted where there is going to be development.  But the Administration 
 
81 
 
 
has an opposition to, in any way, challenging home rule, except when it 
comes to taking municipalities’ Affordable Housing Trust Funds.  Then it’s 
willing to do that.  But it otherwise is unwilling to do anything that will tell 
a municipality it has to confront authority issues of who can live where in a 
state that, right now, is facing an absolute crisis in terms of housing that’s 
available. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We appreciate your comments. 
 
MS. STEELE:  Can I just ask a question? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You know, there are just so many people 
who want to testify. 
 
MS. STEELE:  That’s okay.  I understand.  Thank you so 
much. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Tim Dillingham, American Littoral 
Society. 
T I M   D I L L I N G H A M:  Mr. Chairman, Madam Chair, members of 
the Committee, thank you very much for the opportunity.  Thank you for 
coming down and holding this hearing. 
 
I’m Tim Dillingham, Executive Director of the American 
Littoral Society.  We are a coastal conservation organization based in the 
Highlands.  We have offices in Cumberland County as well as in Trenton.  
We’ve done a lot of work on the storm.  We were displaced ourselves.  We 
lost our office in New York City, which is in the Rockaways.  Many of my 
staff members and many of my members of the organization itself were also 
displaced by the storm. 
 
I commend you all for coming down and having this hearing to 
assess the progress that we’re making in responding to the storm both in 
 
82 
 
 
terms of how far we’ve come and about the quality and the character of that 
response.  Mr. Chairman, your comment about the sort of mid-term 
assessment--  A mid-point assessment, I think, is very appropriate. 
 
I’ve been in a lot of the communities since the storm and 
listened to the stories like the ones we all heard this morning.  And I think 
as an environmentalist and as somebody who thinks about coastal land use, 
coastal management--  Our overall goal in the work that we’re doing and 
things we advocate for is to not have this happen again, to not put people 
into these situations because it’s untenable, it’s indefensible.  And as we see 
the pain and the struggles these folks go through, and the impacts on their 
lives, the impacts on their businesses, the impacts on our communities, we 
should be taking steps to the degree that we can, in an urbanized state like 
New Jersey, to avoid a recurrence of the damage we saw from the storm. 
 
We will not avoid hurricanes.  They are a part of life.  They are 
a part of life along the coastline.  And what we should be doing is working 
not to just rebuild quickly, but to rebuild responsibly so that we’re not 
putting our businesses, we’re not putting our communities back in harm’s 
way. 
 
We not only need to get residents back on their feet, but also 
make sure they’re not going to get knocked down again when the next 
storm hits.  And I think part of the answer to that lies in coastal land use, 
and environmental protection, and in the improvements that we’re making 
and the money that we’re investing in the State, and in the shore, and in 
the areas that have been affected by the storm.  The billions of dollars that 
are going to get spent offer a window of opportunity we can’t afford to 
squander.  It’s an opportunity to make the community safer, it’s an 
 
83 
 
 
opportunity to make them more resilient in the face of inevitable storms in 
the future, and it’s an opportunity to restore the quality of the 
environment. 
 
Sandy has consumed our state, appropriately.  It has sucked all 
the air out of most of the conversations that happen.  But we’ve forgotten 
in many ways -- at least along the coastline, but also in other communities -- 
that from an environmental perspective, we had problems which preceded 
the storm.  Barnegat Bay, which was the focus of these committees’ work 
last year -- the quality of water, solid waste, the quality of our air, 
contaminated sites in our communities, exposure of kids and folks to toxics 
-- those were all issues that preceded this.  We have an opportunity, as we 
have this unprecedented amount of Federal funding available to us, that we 
can move through the drunken phase that Commissioner Mauriello spoke 
to, to fix some of those problems if we do it consciously. 
 
So I think it’s valuable to judge our progress to date, both 
about where we want to go, where we’ve been, and how we’re doing things 
now in the recovery process itself -- but where we want to go in the future.  
And I think an important part of that is to ensure that the response and the 
outcomes are equitable, that the recovery dollars and the strategies that we 
pursue benefit not just the folks in the communities that were along the 
shore itself, or even more narrowly the folks who live right on the beach 
itself, but the communities as a whole in the state.  We’ve heard the 
advocates for the housing interests and other folks throughout the state talk 
about their interest to public access.  You all have heard me talk many times 
in front of you about the need for more public access to the state.  Those 
 
84 
 
 
are questions of equity that we need to address as we go forward in 
investing all this money. 
 
I will associate myself with Mark Mauriello’s comments.  I 
thought they were on target, I thought they went to very critical issues that 
you all are facing.  I would hope that given his experience both as a 
geologist and as someone who worked for years in the trenches of making 
decisions about coastal management, as well as his tenure as the 
Commissioner, we give much weight to his advice. 
 
I do think that as we go forward, I would just offer you some 
thoughts about how we might measure that progress.  We need to 
undertake and be guided by a very honest assessment about the rules of the 
game, the land use laws, the State’s Coastal Management policies which 
made our communities vulnerable. 
 
The storm was the storm.  The storm was unique.  It was bigger 
than anything we’ve seen.  But this was a storm that we knew was coming 
and that we knew was going to have severe consequences.  The State of 
New Jersey has reams of documents, conclusions by its Coastal 
Management Program, reports by the DEP which foretold the amount of 
damage that we were going to incur because of the fact that we had not 
developed smartly, intelligently along the coast.  And we haven’t seen -- I 
haven’t seen, in this discussion about the response and the strategies we 
should be pursuing, an assessment that says that CAFRA has loopholes in 
it; that it allows, in the way that the DEP implements it -- they grant 
exceptions for the development and building of houses in the dune systems, 
even though we acknowledge that dunes were very important in protecting 
many communities along the shore. 
 
85 
 
 
 
So we haven’t gone back and, as a starting point in judging 
where we need to go, assessed those rules honestly and factor them in with 
the changes that we should be seeking.  Those rules, if unchanged, will take 
us back again to the same place in the future.  We will recreate the same 
vulnerabilities that we suffered in the storm with the consequences that you 
heard -- the very real impacts on people’s lives that you heard about. 
 
We have to be informed about accepting information on 
changing and reasonably foreseeable conditions.  Sea level rise--  We know 
that, despite the very intense debate about the advisory-based flood 
elevations and the quality or accuracy of the mapping, FEMA, by its own 
admission, does not account for sea level rising -- are backward looking 
maps influenced by modeling, but not trying to project future conditions.  
Those are things we clearly need to do. 
 
We need to set out a very specific goal of minimizing 
development that’s in high-hazard areas right now.  We should be trying to 
find ways to reduce our vulnerability by both preventing that development 
in the future, but also dealing with the development that is now currently at 
risk.  That needs to be informed by an assessment of water vulnerability -- 
both physical and from a community and social perspective.  Those tools 
are available.  We haven’t used them yet, nor have they been factored into 
spending decisions and other decisions that the State is pursuing. 
 
And then lastly, I think we need to really make sure that we 
minimize the chance of repetitive damage by increasing our efforts to 
acquire open space along the coast, along the beach front, as well as to 
make sure that those areas that we both acquire and that we invest in -- 
particularly through the shore protection projects -- are made available to 
 
86 
 
 
the public, which they are not now.  We know that there are significant 
stretches of the state which are very public-access limited -- whether that’s 
because of parking, because of overzealous enforcement of parking 
restrictions, by ordinances which don’t allow you to bring lunches to the 
beach and then provide no restaurants nearby -- all intended to channel 
folks, I think, to what I would call the boardwalk towns, which is appropriate 
-- they’re valuable.  I have a summer place in Belmar.  That’s where we 
spend -- I raised my kids on that beach.  But we should have the 
opportunity and the right to go where we want to.  And we should not be 
spending billions of dollars to negate that and to cut that -- undercut that 
right. 
 
Mr. Chairman, I know you’re pressed for time.  I will say that I 
don’t think we have undertaken the fair assessment.  Even though the 
information has been very, very valuable to us, I have not seen any 
initiative to go back and look at the rules that guide coastal development.  
In May of this year, the DEP did propose an emergency rule to the State’s 
rules of Coastal Management.  From our perspective, those emergency rules 
didn’t fix any of the long-standing problems related to reducing 
vulnerability, but rather, in some cases, exacerbated it.  The rules -- and the 
majority were aimed at reducing State regulatory oversight in the 
development and rebuilding along the coastline, and in the review of 
reconstruction activities.  I think in the end they’re going to allow an 
increase in development in vulnerable places.  They’re allowing 
development of structures in businesses like marinas that were destroyed, to 
be built closer to the edge of the water.  And as Mark Mauriello 
commented, they’re allowing beach actions and manipulations -- that I 
 
87 
 
 
think, rather than building on the natural (indiscernible) and natural 
protective value that beaches will provide, that dunes provide, are going to 
reduce that.  And these are all initiatives that were in the mix, so to speak, 
long before the storm.  So rather than responding to the issues that were 
exposed by the storm, the DEP, on an emergency basis, has put forth a set 
of rules that would undermine our efforts to move toward better resiliency, 
more protection for our communities. 
 
Clearly we understand -- I think we’re all very aware about the 
debate about sea level rise, about the rejection of sea level rise, climate 
change, it’s influence on how we ought to be making policy.  The fact that 
Dr. Farrell’s tide gauge data that he put up today was taken in Atlantic 
City--  We clearly know, from a scientific perspective -- and we have some 
of the world’s leading scientists available to us in New Jersey -- that sea level 
is rising, and it’s going to have consequences for how we develop, and how 
we protect the communities, and how we protect those stories from being 
repeated. 
 
In terms of the way that the money -- particularly the CDBG 
money -- has been allocated, whether or not it’s been allocated in a way that 
helps us minimize hazardous development--  I would say it hasn’t.  The 
plan that was developed provides and emphasizes programs, tools, and 
funding for reconstruction, rebuilding, and redevelopment, which is 
appropriate in certain places in our coastal communities.  But it doesn’t 
assess vulnerability or the long-term costs or benefits of reconstruction, 
particularly dealing with high-hazard areas. 
 
Again, we have tools available to us.  Rutgers and the Jacques 
Cousteau National Estuarine Research Reserve staff down in Tuckerton, 
 
88 
 
 
and the State’s Coastal Management Program have developed very 
innovative, very user-friendly tools through a program called Getting to 
Resilience.  And it was a mapping effort to help local municipalities 
understand where they were at risk.  That program has not been adequately 
funded.  The staff at DEP have found $125,000 to try to get out to certain 
communities to get them to use this data, to use this program -- $125,000 
out of hundreds of millions of dollars they’re being allocated.  They’re 
simply not looking to that question.  And I think that’s a conscious policy 
decision to not do that, in part driven by the deference to the municipalities 
and the conflicts they find themselves in internally about the need to 
replace the ratable base that was destroyed by the Storm and the need to 
protect those citizens.  So that’s an issue about a tool that could be 
provided very easily.  It’s on the shelf, as well as outreach capacity to get 
into the communities to help them work with that tool. 
 
I would hope that we would look to promoting what I would 
call nature-based solutions to risk reduction.  In a report which was just 
released at the beginning of this week, the Army Corps of Engineers, of all 
people, have come to understand that rebuilding salt marshes, rebuilding 
oyster reefs, rebuilding natural dune systems that are sustainable should be 
part of the mix -- that those natural features can support risk reduction and 
provide other ecosystem services that ultimately contribute to increased 
coastal resilience.  Again, contrary to those conclusions and those findings, 
New Jersey seems to be on the path of one-size-fits-all -- reestablishing the 
beach nourishment projects backed by elevated structures.  Both of those 
are valid strategies and have their place, but they’re not the end all and be 
all.  And we don’t seem to even have a process that allows us to consider 
 
89 
 
 
where those might be -- to use the term -- built upon, expanded upon, utilized -- 
where we should be trying to assess vulnerability and make decisions about 
whether or not those are the right places to rebuild. 
 
And again -- and my last point would be that the buy-out 
program that Governor Christie has initiated, I think, is a good strategy.  
The communities that they’re working in, in Sayreville and other places, are 
communities in need.  They’re the right types of places.  The stated goals of 
the program -- to reduce the risk of future catastrophic flood damage and 
provide homeowners an option to sell homes in flood-prone areas -- are the 
right ones.  The program needs to be much bigger.  And as (indiscernible) 
testified to earlier, it also needs to be focusing on oceanfront properties 
where we see a lot of damage and where we can track where there has been 
repetitive damage.  There are simply places that are indefensible.  As sea 
level rises, the barriers are getting narrower.  There is no more sand in the 
system.  It’s going to be an interesting question, as we go forward, as to how 
much money will continue to come from the Federal government to help 
the municipalities shoulder the burden of putting more sand on the beach 
time and time again; which is a very, very expensive proposition and, at 
best, a temporary safeguard. 
 
And then lastly, I would just go back to, again, the idea that as 
we are posed to spend hundreds of millions of dollars of public money on 
renourishing the beaches, we should make sure that they are accessible to 
the public. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Public access. 
 
MR. DILLINGHAM:  Yes, sir. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Understood. 
 
90 
 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
Listen, we’re--  You know what?  Everybody has been so 
wonderful to come out to this meeting.  Assemblywoman Spencer and I 
have agreed that we’re going to do this again in Trenton. 
 
We said we would cut it off at 1:45.  We’re going to run a little 
longer because you took the time and trouble to come out today, and we 
want to make sure we hear from you.  But we’re going to ask you to 
summarize your points.  It’s got to be -- you have to do it in a minute.  If 
you have written testimony, and you give it to us, it’s going to become part 
of the public record.  And then we are going to have a follow-up meeting in 
September or October, because--  And I know everybody has a lot they want 
to say -- and we’ve heard some horror stories, but some very significant 
information -- but we have many people who still want to testify.  So if you 
could do it in one minute -- give us your big point.  I’m going to call you up 
-- one-minute summary.  And if you have anything you want us to include 
in the public record, do it. 
 
This is a real test to see if you can gather your thoughts and do 
it in 60 seconds. 
 
Robert Campbell, Mayor of Downel Township, Cumberland 
County.  Are you here, Mayor? (no response)  The Mayor probably had to 
leave. 
 
Mayor Nick Russo, of Longport, New Jersey. 
 
Mayor, this is a hard one.  I’ve been a Mayor.  I’ve never done 
anything in 60 seconds. 
M A Y O R   N I C H O L A S   R U S S O:  Since I’ve been in office, I’ve 
always remembered that Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address was two minutes, 
 
91 
 
 
seven seconds.  I never outdid Lincoln, so you don’t have to worry about 
that. (laughter)  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  You’re 15 seconds into your 
minute. 
 
MAYOR RUSSO:  Just a couple of comments about what I 
heard today.  Number one:  We are at elevation 12 in Longport for any new 
construction.  And as far as I know, we had no damage to new homes that 
were elevation 12.  So that may be a barometer to look at. 
 
But our problem is, we never had shorefront protection.  We 
never had a dune.  There is a small dune only on four blocks.  And I saw 
personally, as a firefighter -- I stayed during the storm -- these dunes work.  
They did what they’re supposed to do.  As Dr. Farrell indicated, and others 
have indicated, there was no sand displaced from the beach on those four 
blocks, where in other parts of the city it was a tremendous problem. 
 
When we say about red tape -- this was a great example of 
where there was no red tape -- where DEP allowed sand that was displaced 
from the ocean, from the beach onto the streets, to be returned in a timely 
fashion.  So that was government working properly. 
 
My point is this:  I spoke with Commissioner Bob Martin 
maybe 9 or 10 months ago.  He indicated that along New Jersey’s shoreline, 
there are approximately 2,000 easements that need to be acquired.  Here in 
Longport, we have less than 10.  However, we’re running into a problem.  
We’re getting tremendous direction from the DEP.  They’re giving us forms 
to send to the homeowners.  They’re going through -- helping our solicitor 
go through the contact with these homeowners.  The problem, sir, is that we 
 
92 
 
 
are not getting the positive respons is that we want, or the responses, “I 
don’t want--” 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MAYOR RUSSO:  And the people don’t want protection held 
up.  And my request is this-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Hopefully the recent case -- what’s the 
name of it?  It’s begins with a K -- from Long Beach Island, where the 
Supreme Court said, “You’re valuing these easements the wrong way” -- 
hopefully that will give you some relief.  Condemn them.  Have your 
solicitor condemn them. 
 
MAYOR RUSSO:  What I’m saying, Senator, is:  Is there any 
way that the State--  The State has more attorneys.  The State has--  We 
have one solicitor-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Call Commissioner Martin and see if he 
will do it for you. 
 
MAYOR RUSSO:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mayor. 
 
Campbell Sapp, from Indiana Avenue, Atlantic City.  Are you 
here? (no response) 
 
Lauren Townsend, US Strong -- 60 seconds.  But if you have 
written stuff, we will take it. 
L A U R E N   T O W N S E N D:  I have given you written stuff. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay, good. 
 
MS. TOWNSEND:  I’m Lauren Townsend; I live in Bradley 
Beach, New Jersey.  And I’m with US Strong -- we’re engaging homeowners, 
first responders, faith leaders, community leaders, and local elected official 
 
93 
 
 
like yourselves to build support for commonsense responses and protective 
measures to respond to sea level rise, storm surge, and climate changes. 
 
The Superstorm was a very scary event.  And we heard horror 
stories today and we know about great strides we’ve made in being resilient. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MS. TOWNSEND:  It’s obvious that extreme weather is not 
just in New Jersey.  This spring and summer we’ve seen extreme weather 
events across the country.  A drought is hurting crops and businesses, there 
are forest fires, tornadoes, etc.  And experts have made it clear that we need 
to prepare for extreme weather, including more severe and frequent storms 
in the future.   
 
Though Sandy looms large, it wasn’t a one-time thing.  We’ve 
seen, in the last five years, multiple storms and it costs -- it’s estimated that 
$1,100 per taxpayer nationwide has been spent in the last year just on 
extreme weather alone.  And we need real protections. 
 
So what can we do?  We’re not going to stop the storms, just as 
we can’t stop draught and tornados.  But we can prepare.  And in addition 
to the obvious precautionary measures -- seawalls, barriers, dunes, flood 
protections, safety nets, housing, the land-use management issues that we 
heard earlier today -- we need to do it right next time and make sure that no 
one is left behind. 
 
D.C. politicians held up the Sandy Relief Bill for over 90 days, 
and they played politics with people’s pain and suffering.  And no one 
should suffer in New Jersey because of a hurricane or a drought in the 
Midwest.  That’s why we’re working for an extreme weather relief and 
protection fund that would be a dedicated fund that could be accessed by 
 
94 
 
 
communities in advance of extreme weather events, and used quickly to 
relieve ourselves-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What’s the source of the funding? 
 
MS. TOWNSEND:  We would like the source of the funding 
to be from carbon when it’s spewed into the atmosphere.  It’s what creates 
extreme weather. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Got it. 
 
MS. TOWNSEND:  And we think that there should be a 
Federal solution, and that’s why we are pressing -- we are working on coastal 
communities to make sure that our Congressional elected officials take a 
leadership role in Congress, and hope that you join us to get them to do 
that. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Point received; thank you. 
 
John-- Is it Lambert (indicating pronunciation), from Neptune? 
(no response) 
 
David Pringle.  If he does this in 60 seconds, this will go down 
in the Guinness Book of World Records. (laughter)  
 
Ten seconds (laughter); fifteen seconds. (laughter) 
 
Go ahead, David. 
D A V I D   P R I N G L E:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Other mike, other mike. 
 
MR. PRINGLE:  Other mike. 
 
Thank you, and I’m glad you didn’t have many people like me  
-- the usual environmental suspects -- testifying.  I thought that the 
testimony was very compelling.  You should have more hearings like this, 
 
95 
 
 
and you should listen to those folks more and carry forward the testimony -- 
not just Mark; but the folks who are the real victims need more help, faster 
help.  The Governor has a horrible record on this issue and we need you, 
Democrats and Republicans, leading the charge, holding him accountable, 
calling his departments to task.   
 
So please move forward, prosper, let’s have that next hearing 
sooner and let’s see where they’re at.  We haven’t made the inroads we 
should have in the last four months since we had the last hearing. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Lee Ann Newland, Sandy Recovery.  Are 
you here? (no response) 
 
Ciro Scalera, New Jersey Laborers’ Union.  You have to do 
three minutes in one. 
C I R O   A.   S C A L E R A:  You’ll get it in one minute, Senator. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity.  I was going to talk about the 
effort that we did in the cleanup -- the Laborers in New Jersey.  We had 
over 20,000 hours of clean-up work.  We’re in the process of rebuilding 
roads and bridges to the tune of $560 million in New Jersey.  It’s a massive 
effort in all the shore counties and we’re proud to be part of that effort to 
rebuild the roads and bridges. 
 
I came here today for one environmental issue, and I spoke to 
you before the meeting.  That is to urge your Committee in the fall to take 
up S-1588, Senator Greenstein’s bill on mold.  You heard today several 
witnesses reference the issue.  The bill is a good start for New Jersey.  It 
would create a registration system for the people who hold themselves out 
 
96 
 
 
to remediate.  It’s a consumer protection-type of initiative.  It passed the 
Assembly.  I’m looking forward to testifying in the fall at a regular 
Committee meeting, and that bill can--  We have some suggestions to 
strengthen it; we’ve shared them with the Senator, and we will share them 
with the Committee.  And we’re looking forward to that moving. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
And I believe we moved that bill out of the Assembly already. 
 
Okay, next up we have Molly-- 
 
MR. SCALERA:  (off mike) Chairman Spencer approved.  
(indiscernible). 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Not a problem. 
 
Molly Greenberg from the Ironbound Community Corporation. 
M O L L Y   G R E E N B E R G:  (off mike) (indiscernible) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Not a problem.  And if you 
have any other handouts just make sure we get them.  And remember, if 
you can keep your comments to a minute that would be greatly appreciated. 
 
MS. GREENBERG:  I will, and I will happily send written 
comments.  I just sort of shortened these as quickly as I could so it’s a little 
edited. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Certainly. 
 
MS. GREENBERG:  My name is Molly Greenberg.  I’m 
Environmental 
Programs 
Coordinator 
with 
Ironbound 
Community 
Corporation.  Ironbound Community Corporation was founded in 1969 in 
the neighborhood of Ironbound, in the diverse community of Newark.  The 
 
97 
 
 
Ironbound section is the eastern part of Newark.  It’s a multicultural, 
multiracial community with a population of over 50,000.  This two-square-
mile community is densely populated.   It is historically an immigrant 
community; today Ironbound is home to nearly 30,000 people who were 
born outside the United States, the majority from Central and South 
America -- many of whom do not speak English. 
 
Besides direct services, ICC sees over 900 people daily for direct 
services. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Molly, before you go--  
Ironbound has testified before both these Committees before, so with 
regard to the history, you could probably skip to just the point. 
 
MS. GREENBERG:  Okay, so one of the main reasons why 
we’re here is to talk about the environmental impacts.  We were one of the 
few groups on the ground, doing door knocking, to assess what was going 
on with residents.  We have hundreds of residents in an area that we call the 
island.  It’s closest to the river that had an 8-to10-foot storm surge.  There 
was little done to actually understand and assess the impacts on residents 
from numerous polluting facilities; from a Superfund site -- that’s the 
Passaic River, with one of the largest deposits of dioxins that went into 
people’s homes along with flood waters; it went through factories nearby -- 
(indiscernible) Chemicals, a detergent factory.  All through -- DEP and the 
State were not there, and nobody--  We lack the assessment. 
 
So we’re here trying to work with partners to improve the 
environmental protections for communities -- in particular, urban EJ 
communities.  We need better investment, on the ground community-level 
communication.  It’s not the signs, it’s not the billboards that are actually 
 
98 
 
 
going to get to the residents, particularly in the poor and low income 
communities.  It’s door knocking, it’s working with the community groups 
that are on the ground to make sure that information is being passed 
through. 
 
We need to prioritize the needs to provide impacted EJ 
communities; we need to work with -- to establish protocols to reduce toxic 
hazards in EJ communities.  In the wakes of storms, to better address 
environmental impacts, policy should be made to ensure that impacted 
industrial waterfronts are inspected immediately after the event to protect 
the community and assess the damages. 
 
The only assessment that we were able to get is when EPA, at 
the request because of the Superfund site, came out and inspected weeks 
after.  And obviously many people here know the damage to PVSC.  There 
are numerous facilities right near PVSC -- some of which have pulled up 
shop and will no longer be rebuilding since the storm.  And we don’t know 
the impacts -- the accurate impacts of what happened and what those 
chemicals are.  And those went into people’s homes, those went into one of 
the largest county correction facilities, a large immigrant detention center; 
and the environmental and public health impacts have not been seen. 
 
So for us, we are dealing with those impacts of what happened 
with the existing storm, as well as planning for the future.  Green 
infrastructure needs to be required and prioritized in urban communities-- 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Molly, I really don’t mean 
to cut you off, but we have still about 20 people.  But we want you to know 
that I have met -- as well as Senator Smith -- we’ve had various people from 
Ironbound Community Corporation meeting, most recently in my office in 
 
99 
 
 
particular, in the last month and a half.   So we are familiar with some of 
the issues.  We are familiar--  I am personally familiar with a lot of the 
issues.  In case you did not know, I represent that district, along with Albert 
Coutinho.  So we are very familiar with them, okay? 
 
MS. GREENBERG:  Yes, and I appreciate it, and I appreciate 
the time that everyone has taken to listen to the issues, and really what 
we’re trying to do is find the proactive solutions. 
 
So there has been conversations about what’s been developed, 
and there is even a reference to getting more media attention out there.  
And I think media attention is important, but I think what we’re really 
asking for is concrete solutions; putting the community and the community 
groups at the same table when they’re having conversations about what 
recovery looks like.  So if that’s -- having our constituents and our 
representatives also urging that that process continue.  But I appreciate and 
I thank you for the time, and I apologize for going a little bit over.  But I do 
look forward to trying to have actual concrete next steps. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Certainly.  And I look 
forward to having you included in the meetings that I’ve had with other 
people, because I believe this is the first time that I’ve met you. 
 
MS. GREENBERG:  Yes, I know.  Usually my supervisor Ana 
is-- 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  That’s right -- Ana Baptista.   
 
Thank you. 
 
MS. GREENBERG:  Thank you.  
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  All right, next up -- 
Cassandra Shober, representing herself. 
 
100 
 
 
C A S S A N D R A   R.   S H O B E R:  (off mike) Representing myself. 
(laughter) 
 
I seem to be the only woman who is representing myself. 
(laughter) 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  No, I think a lot of people 
are here representing themselves.  We had a quite a few testify already. 
 
MS. SHOBER:  Very good.   
 
Thank you so much for coming to Atlantic County.  My name 
is Cassandra Shober; I live in Ventnor, which is just down the road from 
Atlantic City. 
 
We’ve had storms before.  And the lack of communication 
before, during, and after Superstorm Sandy is kind of staggering, in that, 
how could we have known?  And my question is:  How could we not have 
known?  We live on a barrier island.  A huge portion of New Jersey is coast.  
Our coastal communities represent $38 billion in revenue.  We should be 
planning every day for that next storm. 
 
We need your help; we need your help in communication.  It 
would have been very easy to send a list out to our communities and say, 
“Not only do you need to evacuate, but these are the things you need to do 
next.”  We could have really used a plan and help.   
 
One of the issues that we’ve talked a lot about is cash flow.  It’s 
something that my husband and I ran into.  We were evacuated.  We got 
30 inches of water in our house.  We were out for four-and-a-half months.  
We had a huge problem with cash flow.  We took money out of our 401(k); 
we were very lucky that we had that available to us.  We paid a huge 
penalty to take that money out so we could get back into our house.   I 
 
101 
 
 
respectfully request that the State take a look at using the withdrawal of  a 
401(k) or pension monies -- that the fees for penalties be waived. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’ll send a letter to the Congress. 
 
MS. SHOBER:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’re State representatives but, Gene, if 
you would do a letter for Assemblywoman Spencer. 
 
MS. SHOBER:  Thank you. 
 
Cleanup was a debacle.  In our little town, our next-door 
neighbors had bins; we didn’t.  When it rained the trash ended up in the 
Bay, the trash ended up in the streets, it ended up in the storm drains.  
That’s something that could have been helped and prevented from the State 
level down to our local communities.  Give us the help to be able to clean 
up effectively. 
 
And finally, I just want to talk a little bit--  A lot of people have 
talked about the dunes.  Here on Absecon Island -- that’s where you are 
now -- we had a Bay incident.  The tide rises from the ocean and it rises 
from the Bay.  If you’re ever here on our island during a full moon and you 
drive down Wellington Avenue, you’re driving through Bay water.  When 
we talk about mitigation, when we talk about fixing, it is not just the dunes.  
These water issues are not just coming from one side; they come all around 
us.  We’re on an island.  So please, as we’re talking about mitigation, as 
we’re talking about things we can do -- seawalls, pumping stations, other 
various mitigations -- if there’s something new, I’d like to try it. 
 
But we’re very happy that you’re here.  Please come back and 
visit.  We may be open for business, but there are a lot of us who still need 
help. 
 
102 
 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up is Jeff Tittel from the Sierra Club. 
J E F F   T I T T E L:  Thank you, and I’ll try to keep it to a minute.  I 
drove three hours this morning, and I thought you were at 10:00, so I’ve 
been up since about 6:00 a.m. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Certainly.  You have a 
minute, Jeff. 
 
MR. TITTEL:  Just real quick:  I’m glad you’re here because, 
quite frankly, there are a lot of stories that need to be told.  I think the 
most critical one is dealing with the environment and how we go forward. 
 
You know, the cutting of the ribbons and all the TV 
commercials do not take away from the misery that people are feeling.  But 
more importantly, you need to use your role, one, as an oversight 
committee.  Because I’m hearing stories about where garbage was dumped -- 
there are piles, and there wasn’t proper materials put down, and people are 
concerned about toxins.  I just got calls this week about beach 
replenishment projects where, under the definition -- because we’re waiving 
everything and we’re not really looking -- what was dumped on the beach 
was sewage smell.  Well, maybe it could have been biota from the Bay, but 
only 90 percent has to be sand -- 10 percent can be anything else.  And 
that’s what we’re seeing. 
 
But the biggest issues that are facing us are climate change and 
sea-level rising.  We’re not dealing with it, and we’re going to be putting 
billions of dollars out to sea if we don’t deal with it.  We took $200 million 
 
103 
 
 
out of Clean Energy that could be helping people rebuild in a resilient way.  
We’re not putting the money back where we need to put it.   
 
And I just want to leave you with this.  Besides oversight, there 
are more than a dozen bills that you have been working on.  Move them.  
Whether it’s closing CAFRA loopholes, stopping them from bulldozing 
dunes, whether it’s making sure that there’s proper access to our beaches, 
making sure that we’re doing green building, making sure that we’re doing 
things in a more resilient manner, that we’re also restoring natural systems 
and having green infrastructure, and all those things that you’ve talked 
about for the last seven or eight months -- you have to start moving those 
bills and see what happens.  Maybe the Governor will veto them or maybe 
he’ll sign them.  But you have to use your role as a legislature to pass the 
laws that we need to protect us from future storms. 
 
You know, the slogan is “stronger than the storm.”  Are we 
stronger than the next storm?  No, and that’s why you have to do your job 
and pass those laws, whether it’s to encourage regional planning, to try to 
have some kind of coastal commission, close those loopholes and move the 
environment in this State forward.  Because the people are suffering and 
they demand it of you to do your job. 
 
Thank you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up -- Janice Selinger, New Jersey Work Environment 
Council. 
J A N I C E   S E L I N G E R:  Thank you.  And I do have some written 
comments which I will leave. 
 
104 
 
 
 
I’m Janice Selinger.  I’m the Communications Coordinator for 
the Safer After Sandy Project, which is a new project from the New Jersey 
Work Environment Council.  And WEC is a coalition of 70 labor, 
environmental, and community organizations working for safe, secure jobs 
in a healthy, sustainable environment. 
 
We have an 18-month Susan Harwood Grant from OSHA that 
helps workers and employers build understanding of some of the safety and 
health hazards associated with Hurricane Sandy cleanup, recovery, and 
rebuilding. 
 
As you’re well aware, workers, volunteers, and residents are 
engaged in cleanup, and recovery, and rebuilding.  And unless the work is 
done correctly it can pose serious health and safety risks that can cause a 
second long-term disaster. 
 
Immediate safety dangers could be debris piles, building 
collapse, electrocution, gas explosions, falls, and other construction-related 
hazards.  And there can be an exposure to sewage, asbestos, lead, silica, 
cement dust, chemicals, and mold.  And what we’re going to be doing is, 
we’re providing safety and health information to the press and the public 
through our Safer After Sandy website, Twitter, and Facebook page -- which 
is currently under development.  We’re also going to be producing public 
service announcements for radio and for television.  And we’re going to 
have a Health Awareness Outreach Day on Sunday, September 15, as part 
of the New Jersey Friends of Clearwater Festival in Long Branch, where 
we’re going to hand out educational materials.  We’re going to be providing 
free training to ensure that workers and employers are aware of these 
hazards that they might encounter and how they can protect themselves.  
 
105 
 
 
And we look forward to working with you to ensure that no one is injured, 
made ill, or dies on the job as we recover and rebuild from Sandy, and also 
prepare for the next extreme weather event. 
 
So thank you, and if people have information about where 
mold is currently being cleaned up, I’d love to know about that -- because 
we are producing these public service announcements and I would like to 
get some of that footage. 
 
And I do have material in my car if anyone is interested. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Very good.  Thank you. 
 
MS. SELINGER:  Thank you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Next up, Eric Hansel, 
Sustainable Master Plan.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Not here. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Not here. 
 
Next -- Michael F. Johnson. 
M I C H A E L   F.   J O H N S O N:  (off mike)  Here. 
 
I’ll be very brief; I’ll just leave something with you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Good afternoon.  My name is Mike Johnson, 
and I would like to speak on behalf of my Atlantic City community. 
 
Basically, we have a problem with the Department of 
Community Affairs as they overlook (sic) their two programs -- two of the 
programs that they have under their tenure -- the Resettlement Grant 
Program, and the Reconstruction Evaluation and Mitigation Program.  Both 
of these programs--  They have form letters that they are sending out to the 
citizens telling them that they’re denied, but yet the reasons that they’re 
 
106 
 
 
given are not correct.  In other words, in my case, they said I was denied 
because I did not have at least a foot of water in my home.  Well, I had 28 
inches.  And a lot of people throughout the city are getting these kinds of 
letters.  And what we need for you to do, as legislators, is to contact the 
Department of Community Affairs and see if they can correct--  Now people 
are appealing, of course.  But if they do it right the first time -- well then, 
people don’t have to appeal. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Let me make a suggestion, Mike.  You 
have one of the best Senators in the State Senate right here.  He represents 
Atlantic City -- Senator Whelan.  Give him a letter describing what DCA 
didn’t do, and I’m sure he’ll get in touch with-- 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  And Michael, you’re not the only one.  
I mean, we’ve had-- 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Right, I know. 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  So we-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, he’ll hit them with the baseball bat. 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  And I know that.  I know Senator Whelan 
personally; he’s helped me in the past. 
 
Thank you very much for the time. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mike. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up, Victoria Phillips from Mental Health Association. 
V I C T O R I A   L.   P H I L L I P S:  Good afternoon.  I will try and 
time myself and be brief, but I am here to speak for the voiceless. 
 
I am the Executive Director of the Mental Health Association 
here in Atlantic County.  I am also a member of the Atlantic County Long-
 
107 
 
 
Term Recovery Executive Committee.  I’m also a trained mental health 
volunteer who was deployed for Hurricane Marilyn, Hurricane Katrina, and 
also Superstorm Sandy. 
 
Our concerns rest with the vulnerable populations, and they 
started before the storm, they happened during the evacuation process, and 
they continue today.  These vulnerable populations include the poor, the 
elderly, persons with physical disabilities, persons living with mental illness, 
individuals with diminished capacity, undocumented individuals, persons 
who have language barriers, and individuals who are overwhelmed by their 
loss and unable to navigate the process moving forward. 
 
This is a big group of people, and they’re not being heard.  
They haven’t been heard much since we’ve gotten here this morning.  We’re 
finding, 10 months later, we have some very clear things that we’re seeing.  
I was moved by the two women from Union Beach; but can you imagine if 
you were a senior citizen or somebody with a disability trying to deal with 
what those capable women were dealing with?   
 
Seniors have been heavily impacted by this storm -- many who 
have drained their life savings.  They’re trying to turn to the grants and the 
Long-Term Recovery Committee, but they can’t move forward because we 
can’t help them in the Long-Term Recovery Committee until they hear 
from the grants.  They’re sitting in gutted houses; they’ve had unscrupulous 
contractors come in who have said that they have removed the mold, and 
yet you can smell it as soon as you walk in their houses.  The mold is 
growing up their walls.  They’ve paid for services that were just pretty much 
robbed from people. 
 
108 
 
 
 
We’re also concerned with the families that have language 
barriers.  They’re trying to negotiate with insurance companies and with 
these RREM staff people, and they’re not being understood. 
 
We’re extremely concerned about persons living with mental 
illness, particularly those trying to find housing.  We’re seeing large 
numbers of elderly who are fearful to move forward.  They can’t make 
decisions, they don’t know who to turn to, there’s no one on the streets to 
help them understand the process that they need to go through.  And even 
when they are getting phone numbers to refer to, they’re bounced from 
agency to agency to agency.  And it’s just criminal. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What is the solution? 
 
MS. PHILLIPS:  I think that we have a lot of people in this 
county who are trying to find the solutions, and I don’t know that we have 
all the solutions up.  But we really need more people who are in the 
neighborhoods -- not sitting behind desks and not sitting behind a 2-1-1 
phone number.  We need people sitting and going neighborhood by 
neighborhood.  I myself have walked since early November from 
neighborhood to neighborhood throughout Ventnor, Brigantine, Longport, 
Margate.  And I’ve been in houses where people have no idea what they--  
They don’t understand at all what to do.  They just are so confused by the 
process. 
 
And I think we just need more people out on the streets and 
talking to people, and understanding the process and figuring out how to 
move them forward.  Because the grants -- like those women said today -- 
those grants are impossible to try to understand.  I heard one of you ask 
about what is the process.  There is a flowchart that’s being distributed by 
 
109 
 
 
New Jersey Strong.  You should look at that flowchart.  It’s a daunting 
process.  And you talk about somebody who is 75 or 80 years old trying to 
do it alone.  It’s very, very scary. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  It certainly sounds like you 
have raised some of the same concerns that the two individuals from the 
NAACP -- Ms. Steele and Mr. Young -- brought up with regards to the 
community here in Atlantic City -- which is also an equally challenged 
community, considering the fact that a lot of them are older and that they 
are renters, and they’re not as willing to leave their properties because this 
is the place that they know and they’re unsure as to where to go and who to 
turn to. 
 
But certainly we will get a copy of this flowchart and see exactly 
what kind of maze it is that we’re giving to people, so that we can better 
understand it.  And if it needs to be changed we can make suggestions to 
the proper people. 
 
MS. PHILLIPS:  Well, I will just add that our agency got a 
grant from Robert Wood Johnson to put case managers on the street.  We 
are three weeks into having that grant, and we are overwhelmed with the 
amount of cases that are coming forward that need our help.  And we are a 
little different; we do spend the time in the homes with people and are 
seeing this going forward.  But I just think you need to double that effort in 
a big way. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Certainly. 
 
MS. PHILLIPS:  Because there are a lot of people who, if they 
can’t move this forward, I don’t know how they’re going to recover. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Certainly. 
 
110 
 
 
 
MS. PHILLIPS:  And I do have written testimony, because I 
did deviate. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up, Roderick Scott from Baumgardner House Lifting. 
R O D E R I C K   S C O T T:  Good afternoon.  I’ll be very brief.  I have 
some information here. 
 
Actually, I am a consultant from the Gulf Coast area, near New 
Orleans.  I’ve been involved with repairing flood and fire damaged 
structures for over 25 years.  I’ve been in the structural elevation hazard 
mitigation industry for 7 years, working in various parts of the country.  I’m 
in month nine in New Jersey; I’ve travelled over 9,000 miles on this 
coastline.  I have produced a first-time-ever public outreach on how 
elevation works in this state.  We have 9,000 structures elevated since 
Katrina/Rita in the Gulf and in Louisiana, and you guys are just getting 
started here.  There was a lot of denial about the issues and having houses 
too low to the ground here.  And we’ve now suffered the consequences. 
 
You have a limited amount of time -- 50 (sic) years -- to get the 
structures up.  We estimate 300,000 structures in this state have to be 
elevated or removed from the landscape.  You have billions of dollars of 
work to do.  You have a very small home-grown elevation industry in this 
state.  There were four or five qualified, experienced professional 
contractors with, maybe, eight machines.  You now have several 
corporations from outside the state that have focused on elevation in the 
Gulf for several years.  You now have 28 machines in your state; you need 
200.  You need 200 elevation machines in order to get on this quickly 
 
111 
 
 
before you get slammed again -- which is coming.  This dance is coming 
again.  
 
We just did our fifth hurricane in nine years in the Gulf last 
year.  I went through my first hurricane down there.  As a consultant, I have 
done this public outreach.  I think we need to encourage more public 
outreach.  There is a lot of third railing going on below Atlantic City that -- 
“Let’s not touch that issue; let’s not touch the elevation issue.  Maybe it will 
just work itself out.”  Whereas, up north it was embraced by the local 
governments and we did a lot of public outreach in churches and 
auditoriums for the cities, with the city governments. 
 
We need to get elevation going in this state; however, we are 
going to encounter the very same thing that we encountered in the Gulf, 
which is inexperienced people claiming they can do this.  We dropped a 
house in Egg Harbor a couple of weeks ago and destroyed it.  Luckily three 
men lived through that experience.  We dropped 12 houses and killed six 
men and widowed six families before our state cracked down on the 
requirements for these elevation contractors. 
 
We have 100 percent support of these professional elevation 
contracting companies that are in your state right now -- both homegrown 
and from out-of-state.  We gave a list of six items that we desperately need 
this state to enact in their contractor qualifications.  The homeowner 
improvement contractor qualifications will not hold up.  You will drop more 
houses and kill people if we don’t get this stiffened. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Got it. 
 
MR. SCOTT:  Got it.  So we want to help.  Our industry-- 
 
112 
 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And what you gave us is very helpful.  
We’re getting a bill drafted. 
 
MR. SCOTT:  Great.  And we’d like to work with you.  We’ve 
given you the points that will really work.  They’ve worked across the Gulf 
and we think they’ll work here. 
 
Thank you for your time, and thank you for all your efforts and 
leadership. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you, thank you. 
 
Next up -- Debbie Mans from New York/New Jersey Baykeeper. 
D E B B I E   M A N S:  Okay, real quickly -- Debbie Mans, New 
York/New Jersey Baykeeper, working for over 20 years to protect, preserve, 
and restore the New York/New Jersey harbor estuary. 
 
So I’ll just get to the three main points.  We look forward now, 
after the storm, and we are looking to the Legislature to provide leadership 
in making sure that the billions of dollars to be spent on recovery will not 
be squandered and that they will be spent equitably. 
 
First, we need to improve public communication and make it 
timely.  We had first responders and homeowners wading through polluted 
river water, with millions of gallons of raw sewage in it and toxic chemicals 
from industrial sites, along our urban waterfront. 
 
Second, we need to protect urban waterfront and critical 
infrastructure, including wastewater treatment plants.  And we need to do 
this through including green infrastructure.  And we can’t just rebuild; we 
need to upgrade to achieve long-term water quality improvements.  So don’t 
just rebuild PBSC; upgrade it so that it can take in more stormwater and 
can reduce combined sewer outflows into our urban community. 
 
113 
 
 
 
And 
third 
-- 
buyouts 
must 
be 
implemented 
more 
comprehensively, more broadly, and faster.  So far we are only working in 
two communities that I know of.  And this process is too slow and it’s not 
going to meet the timeframe that the Governor set out. 
 
More specifically, the Legislature can do the following:  Pass 
Senate Bill 2600, with amendments that condition the use of public funds 
for shore protection and waterfront improvements -- now that the Hudson 
River walkway is in there -- on the provision for guiding meaningful public 
access. 
 
Second, pass amendment Senate Bill 831/Assembly Bill 2852 
which would require timely notification to the public when raw sewage is in 
the water, and establish important signage and monitoring requirements.  
This bill needs to go through the Senate with the amendments.  Thank you, 
Assemblywoman Spencer; that happened on the Assembly side. 
 
Third, in order to restore and soften our edges that we have lost 
-- our waterfront edges that we have lost to development -- we need to 
restore wetlands, open space buffers, oyster and mussel beds, and barrier 
islands to help address this.  And this is a very parochial concern on our 
part.  The Legislature should pass S-107, which would lift the ban on 
oysters for use in restoration or research purposes in the Hudson/Raritan 
estuary.   
 
And finally, I would say don’t pass bills like the one that is 
sitting on the Governor’s desk that would allow building on piers in high-
hazard areas.  That is not the kind of action we want to see from the 
Legislature.  And I know you guys can do better than that, and I’m looking 
forward to the outcome of this hearing.  We’ve heard a lot of compelling 
 
114 
 
 
testimony.  You guys have a lot of work to do.  I don’t envy your position, 
but we’re looking to you to provide the leadership.   
 
And I have handouts.  Thank you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up -- Karen Lane from IBEW Local 827. 
 
Please begin. 
K A R E N   S.   L A N E:  Hi, my name is Karen Lane.  I’m Vice President 
of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.  We represent the 
majority of Verizon workers -- 4,700 workers in the State of New Jersey. 
 
I’m not here to ask you to do anything.  I’m just here to alert 
you to something that Verizon is rolling out into Mantoloking, the Barrier 
Islands, Bay Head -- it’s called Voice Link.  It is an inferior product to the 
infrastructure that they have now, which is copper or fiber.   And what this 
is going to do is, it’s going to impact your public safety.  I do have a 
handout here, which is Verizon’s service agreement.  And it outlines all the 
things that Voice Link doesn’t do.  It doesn’t support burglar alarms, fire 
alarms, 9-1-1--  If they install this system in your house, then you can pick 
this up and take this somewhere else, just like you would with Dish 
Network -- a lot of people do that to save money.  If you do that, and you 
take this to another location to use it -- because it’s, basically, just a cell 
phone -- if you call 9-1-1, the 9-1-1 services are going to go to your home 
where it was originally installed.  You’re not going to get it. 
 
Burglar systems -- it’s a wireless product.  It can be jammed.  If 
somebody is outside your house and you don’t have a burglar system, and 
all you have is Voice Link and you want to call 9-1-1, all they have to do is 
 
115 
 
 
turn on this jammer and that will make it inoperable and you are very 
vulnerable. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  And you have information 
on this to share with us so that we can disseminate it to-- 
 
MS. LANE:  I do.  I have the service agreement -- the Verizon 
service agreement spells it out.  They’re not hiding it, but they’re not really 
making this known to the municipalities. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN 
SPENCER: 
 
They’re 
not 
being 
transparent about it. 
 
MS. LANE:   And the other thing that’s going to happen is 
there is going to be a loss of revenue to these municipalities that are already 
hurting.  We have this infrastructure that’s up there now, with the copper, 
the fiber, the telephone poles.  Once they go wireless, they’ll no longer be 
paying these municipalities tax dollars.  So who’s going to make that up? 
 
Also, there are issues with e-commerce.  This product does not 
support e-commerce.  It doesn’t do fax lines, it doesn’t do credit cards -- 
anything like that.  So for a community that is trying to rebuild, especially 
in these shore communities, this is not going to help them.  It should be 
used as a temporary fix only until we get you back up into service.  But 
that’s not what they want to do.  And they’re making it sound like they 
only want to roll it out to these three communities.  They’re rolling it out to 
the entire state. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  So your testimony is that 
they’re rolling it out to these three communities because these three 
communities were hardest hit by Sandy, or--  I mean, I don’t understand 
 
116 
 
 
why they’re--  I don’t understand why you’re here to introduce this 
information, and if it -- whether or not it ties to the Sandy issue. 
 
MS. LANE:  Well, this multi-billion dollar company that has 
been taking these tariffs and this money from all of your constituents are 
not going to put back into place what Sandy has taken away.  
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Okay. 
 
MS. LANE:   What they want to do is put in this inferior 
product, which is not going to help you economically or safety. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Okay.  All right, certainly, if 
you just provide us with a copy of it, we’ll be sure to get copies to the 
respective districts. 
 
MS. LANE:  Thank you so much. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up -- Wayne DeFeo. 
W A Y N E   D.   D E F E O:  Good afternoon.  I have submitted written 
testimony so I could be extraordinarily brief. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Yes, you have. 
 
MR. DEFEO:  I just want to point out that I’m not here to--  
We’ve had a lot of sad stories; I’m here to give you some good news.  And 
the good news is that a number of buildings that were built prior to the 
storm, that were built to sustainable standards -- in particular, LEED 
development standards -- survived the storm well in the storm areas.   
 
These standards do things such as encourage the building of 
proper drainage, the building of systems where you don’t have impervious 
surface, stronger materials -- materials that are more resilient.  The 
important thing that I would like to get across is that in the plan for 
 
117 
 
 
rebuilding now, sustainability is a goal.  And the statement says “where 
feasible.”  I would argue that it is always feasible, and that that language 
should be stricken, and that sustainability standards should be a mandate.  
If that’s done, it doesn’t mean people couldn’t rebuild where they are; it 
means that certain standards of building would change.  
 
This should be the paradigm; it should be the norm.  the 
argument “where feasible” is an out argument -- is an argument to allow 
people to say it’s too expensive.  It is not.   
 
I will give you one anecdote.  There are six case studies of 
success in this report that I submitted.  The one anecdote I found 
(indiscernible), and it is not a LEED building, is in Bayonne.  It was several 
years ago; a school put solar panels on the roof.  We all talk about solar.  It 
is the only building that I know of in the State of New Jersey where the 
panels were designed as an emergency back-up system.  Not only do they 
provide power normally -- but in the storm they kicked in to back up the 
diesel generators.  Accordingly, less than 500 gallons of diesel was used, and 
the school always had power and it was used as a shelter.  That’s a form of 
resiliency. 
 
I leave this with you.  I’d be happy to come back at your 
convenience, and I thank you very much. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you, thank you. 
 
Next up -- John Scotland from BrigStrong. (no response)  He’s 
not here. 
 
Next -- George Kasimos, Stop FEMA Now.  
G E O R G E   K A S I M O S:  Thank you very much for having this.  We 
need this. 
 
118 
 
 
 
I’m a homeowner in Toms River; our home got flooded.  I 
needed information:  Do I raise?  Do I rebuild and raise?  Can I afford the 
flood insurance?  It was a FEMA issue.  You know, since that point in time 
we’ve had significantly more questions than answers, and just things that 
don’t make sense.  And, you know it’s not just about FEMA; it’s about all 
these issues.  And even our dunes -- you know, it was an issue--  It’s been a 
year almost, and we need to get the dunes built.  Let’s get together and let’s 
get them built.  We’re losing the sense of urgency and it has to get done, 
number one.  Number two is the RREM program -- it helps people with 
unmet needs, okay?  If you had flood insurance and a similar person did not 
have flood insurance, the person who did not have flood insurance has more 
unmet needs.  We’re rewarding the people who did have flood insurance.  
This is not the message we want to send.  If you live in a flood zone and 
you do not have flood insurance, you should not get paid.  This should get 
stopped. 
 
There is a new program out that’s helping first-time home 
buyers, okay?  It’s giving them $50,000 to buy a new home.  And this is 
part of all the $1.6 billion we’re getting.  This is an insult to everyone.  We 
don’t have funds for things.  I’m not asking, “Hey, we need more money, 
we need money.”  We have to do with what we have -- I understand that.  
We’re giving $50,000 to people to buy a home, and we’re not helping the 
people who had their homes damaged?  These are issues that our State 
controls.  We might not be able to control FEMA, but we have to control 
what our State does, and we definitely need this help.  These programs need 
to be drastically changed.  Help our homeowners. 
 
119 
 
 
 
And lastly, if I can ask if we can have this meeting up and down 
the coast, okay?  In Trenton it would be great, but all the affected 
homeowners--  You want to hear from homeowners?  Please, do it up and 
down the coast.  Do it in Union Beach, do it in Toms River where these 
ground zero areas are.  You want to hear from the people?  And I know it’s 
boring sometimes, but give them a minute and let them know this.  But we 
need to get together. 
 
Lastly, I started this group just to get information.  We’ve 
grown to over 10,000 members.  On September 28, we’re having a rally up 
and down all communities in New Jersey, New York, and Louisiana.  The 
flood insurance premium -- nobody has spoken about flood insurance 
policies.  If we raised our homes to the required elevations, we still do not 
get the premium rate.  According to FEMA and according to the NFIP, we 
need to raise our homes 4 feet above the BFE, okay?  Our flood insurance 
premiums are going to rise exorbitantly.  Maybe they’re not going to rise to 
$30,000 a year.  My flood insurance was $1,000; it was going to go to 
$30,000 in a V zone.  It got reduced -- FEMA got it reduced with 
everyone’s help here, and I appreciate it.  It’s going to still be $9,000.  If 
you take that and you average somebody from $1,000 and $9,000-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Did you get your renewal? 
 
MR. KASIMOS:  No, that’s not going to happen until we get 
the firm rates.  But I’ll tell you what’s happened in Louisiana.  In Louisiana 
they have their firm rates.  All the legislation that’s going into Congress 
right now is coming from Congressman (sic) Vitter, and Congressman (sic) 
Landrieu, and Assemblyman Cassidy from Louisiana; and it’s going to be 
 
120 
 
 
happening from here.  No -- our new bills are going up 5 or 10 percent, 
okay?  That I understand.  Our-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I thought the Congress in 2012 passed a 
bill that said that flood insurance premiums could rise by up to 25 percent 
per year for the next four years.  And I thought that was what was 
governing it.  I’m not at the right height; my flood premium increased by 
$80.   
 
MR. KASIMOS:  The $80--  No, you’re referring to the Biggert- 
Waters Act.  Our true flood insurance rate that I’m referring to, at $9,500 -- 
that’s coming from me -- is going to come when the maps are firm.  They’re 
going to be firm in the next year. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And the 25 percent won’t apply to them. 
 
MR. KASIMOS:  No.  That’s when it starts applying.  So my 
flood insurance is scheduled to go to, say, $9,500.  I pay $1,000 a year.  
How do you get from $1,000 a year to $9,500 in four years?  What they’re 
doing is they’re taking $2,500 from the $9,500, 25 percent of the $9,500.  
It’s not--  Twenty-five percent of a $1,000 is $250.  It’s 25 percent of the 
$9,500.  And this is the mathematic--   This is what we have to get--  You 
are all educated; you are in this.  We’re homeowners.  We’re living out of 
garbage bags, and this is the assistance that we need, and this is what we 
need to get out to everybody -- is this is the beginning; this isn’t the end.   
 
And I’ll give you one last story from the folks in Louisiana.  
Folks who raised their homes after Katrina need to raise their homes again.  
That’s all I’m telling you.  This is the beginning; this is not the end of 
what’s going to happen.  I don’t want to sound like a storm monger, and I 
 
121 
 
 
thought in January when I got my few issues done, “We’re done.”  I started 
a Facebook page “We’re done.”  No -- this is the beginning.   
 
And lastly, the reason we’re getting these flood insurance 
premiums is the National Flood Insurance Program is in the hole $20 
billion.  There are 5.5 million homeowners in America who have flood 
insurance.  If everybody paid a $4,000 surcharge one time, you’d have $2 
billion additional dollars.  How can you charge $9,000 average for life, for 
perpetuity?  We’re just building another bureaucracy for the NFIP.  That’s 
what we have to stop, and we have to get together.  And that’s why I’m 
proposing, and we’re having -- in three different states -- we’re having 
concurrent rallies and basically saying, “Look, we have to get together here 
and we have to stop this.”  This is the beginning.  This is going to have a 
bigger effect on the housing market than the 2007 housing bubble. 
 
And thank you again for your time.  And I respectfully ask if 
you can have the meeting in Toms River and Union Beach.  I understand 
you’re all busy and it’s hard to do, and I appreciate it.  And I thank you 
very much; I appreciate it. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
MR. KASIMOS:  Thank you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Next up -- Dennis Elwell, 
The Intersect Fund. 
D E N N I S   E L W E L L:  Good afternoon.  I’ll be as brief as possible. 
 
The Intersect Fund is one of the largest micro-lending projects 
in New Jersey.  And recently we got a grant from the NJ Hurricane Sandy 
Relief Fund to do loans and grants for people who were affected by the 
storm. 
 
122 
 
 
 
We’ve talked to a lot of people who applied through the EDA, 
SBA -- those organizations -- and, obviously, as has already been mentioned 
before, there has been a lot of red tape, a lot of people were denied or are 
still waiting months on end for funding. 
 
Since we’re a smaller nonprofit and we’re offering smaller loans, 
smaller grants we can cut through a lot of that red tape.  And so I want to 
raise awareness of our program, which has a maximum loan of $15,000 for 
business owners and a maximum grant of $2,250. 
 
So if you have any constituents who come to you with 
problems with applying for the EDA, ESBA, or if they’re still waiting on 
that funding for months on end, we can potentially be an alternative for 
them. 
 
So I have some flyers here with information -- the main details 
on what we do.  And I’ll just pass those around.   
 
And that’s about it.  Thank you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
MR. ELWELL:  Yes. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Next up -- Jim Rutala, from 
Rutala Associates.  Is it Rutala (indicating pronunciation) or Rutala? 
J I M   R U T A L A:  Rutala (indicating pronunciation).  Thank you. 
 
Good afternoon.   
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Good afternoon. 
 
MR. RUTALA:  My name is Jim Rutala.  Our firm, Rutala 
Associates, represents many of the coastal towns in Atlantic, Cape May, and 
Cumberland County.  And we’ve dealt with a lot of the storm-related issues 
in these communities.  I’m going to boil down my comments to three 
 
123 
 
 
requests:  One is, back in March, most of the communities that were 
impacted by Sandy submitted Hazard Mitigation Grant applications.  They 
are being reviewed by the New Jersey Office of Emergency Management.  
We have not heard anything on those applications.  Those applications 
include hundreds of millions of dollars in help for communities in South 
Jersey.  We have letters of interest from thousands of homeowners in 
Atlantic County who are interested in elevating their homes, and they’ve 
put in for those funds through their municipalities.  We would ask you to 
follow up-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Are you the municipal engineer for these 
municipalities? 
 
MR. RUTALA:  Planner. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Planner? 
 
MR. RUTALA:  Yes. 
 
We would ask you to follow up on that issue.  We know it’s a 
long issue, but the first step is they basically weigh what projects they want 
to fund, and then they continue the review process, and there’s a cost-
benefit analysis as required.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And when was it submitted? 
 
MR. RUTALA:  March. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You have the best Senator-- 
 
MR. RUTALA:  We understand, and he is certainly aware.  
We’ve been working with the Senator on all these things. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  He’ll kick butt; give him--  Let him know 
what the projects were that are being reviewed and (indiscernible). 
 
124 
 
 
 
MR. RUTALA:  This is all along the coast; it’s not just Atlantic 
County.  This is all being handled by the State. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, you should take each county by 
itself, and then ask the State Senators and Assemblypeople -- I’m not going 
to let the Assemblypeople out of it -- to get involved and start rattling the 
cage. 
 
MR. RUTALA:  Thank you.  Okay. 
 
Number two:  We have a wonderful relationship with the DEP 
Office of Engineering Services -- Coastal Engineering.  They do great work 
in Atlantic County, both the coastal improvements as well as bulkheads.  
Each year they get $30 million allocated by the State to match coastal 
projects and to build bulkheads and revetments, and other projects.  This 
year, because of Sandy, you can just imagine the amount of applications 
that they have are significant.  I know there has been discussion in the 
Legislature and in the State about increasing their allocation.  It would be 
very timely if that could be done. 
 
Third issue:  You’ve just introduced the New Jersey 
Environmental Infrastructure Trust; just introduced-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
MR. RUTALA:  --a wonderful program to fund infrastructure -- 
very good.  Eighteen percent grants, 57 percent zero-interest loan, 25 
percent market-rate loan.  And that will go a long way for a lot of the 
coastal communities.  I know there has been some discussion about possibly 
having additional Sandy money going towards that program so the grant 
amount may be more than 18 percent.  That would certainly be warranted 
in this case, because I can tell you the communities that I’m working with-- 
 
125 
 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  They have no money. 
 
MR. RUTALA:  --are dealing with reduced ratables.  And they 
aren’t in a position where they can do a lot of borrowing.  But they are very 
eager to address the issues.  So certainly that program is a wonderful 
program, Senator.  If you were involved, thank you very much. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, it’s my bill. 
 
What you should do, though--  How about writing--  Did you 
have it on the Assembly side?  It was our bill. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF COMMITTEE:  Our bill. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. RUTALA:  Thank you very much. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  If you wouldn’t mind sending us both a 
letter indicating specific requests.  And then we can take it up and talk to 
the IT and see what we can do. 
 
MR. RUTALA:  Great; I appreciate your time.  Thank you, sir. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up, Sylvia Stewart.  (no response) 
 
Anthony Lombardo, Save Barnegat Bay. 
A N T H O N Y   L O M B A R D O:  Here or here? 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Wherever you’d like, sir. 
 
MR. LOMBARDO:  Either/or. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Yes, as long as you’re right 
in front of a mike. 
 
MR. LOMBARDO:  Good afternoon, everybody, and thank 
you very much for having this meeting.  Obviously the myriad of issues that 
 
126 
 
 
you’ve heard today are probably blowing the back of your head off in a lot 
of ways.   
 
But the only thing that I want to add to what was going on  -- a 
lot of people covered a lot of the things that I may have wanted to say.  But 
in regards to Barnegat Bay, the 45 miles of Barnegat Bay had 54 homes 
dropped into it, countless numbers of vehicles, cars, the contents of the 
homes, and things that are going to happen.  Right now, the environmental 
impacts are far from being discovered.  You think about the homes-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The Bay was a mess before Sandy. 
 
MR. LOMBARDO:  Okay, but now we have 54 homes and the 
contents of the garages -- propane tanks, paint cans.  These things haven’t 
rusted yet or anything like that, but when it does happen it’s going to go--  
The DEP had said that they had dredged certain waterways and things are 
being cleared off.  But just by living in Ocean County myself--  I know 
somebody last week who was out in the Bay and cut their foot on glass even 
with shoes on.  I know somebody who was coming from an inland waterway 
and it ripped a hole in their boat.  It was a Volkswagen that they hit.  So 
obviously there are some things that need to be done. 
 
Anyhow, I can’t even elaborate much more than I have.  I can, 
but I won’t.  You all have a lot of work to do.  Thank you very much and 
have a great day. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up, Tom Fote.  I can’t read the writing. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  He is Jersey Coast Anglers Association. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
127 
 
 
T O M   F O T E:  Thanks again for the hearing.  I was up at the ones in 
the Highlands; I missed the one in Trenton. 
 
I’ll just throw out some fast figures:  In 2007 we had 240,000 
boats in New Jersey -- registered.  In 2011 we were down to 160,000.  And 
I don’t know what we’re going to be in 2013.  I imagine it’s going to be less 
than 120,000 boats.  That’s a lot of industry that’s been lost over the last 
10 years.  Part of it was Sandy, because of the boats that were destroyed, 
but a lot of it was the economy and gas prices that’s basically hurt the boat 
industry. 
 
The recreational fishing industry is feeling the same kind of 
bite.  I have a tournament going on, on the 24th.  I had a thousand boats in 
2005, 2006, 2007.  This year, right now, I have 200 boats registered with 
seven days to go.  It’s a good chance to win a prize since we give away 120 
prizes.  We’re going to lose money, but that’s what happens. 
 
One other thing, and I’ll get off because of the time.  We really 
need to sit down and talk about the fishing industry in New Jersey, both the 
commercial and the recreational.  Climate change -- climate, where I just 
testified before the Senate Commerce Committee at the Federal level, 
talking about--  And I put in climate change, and the senator from Alaska 
said, “Well, thank God somebody talked about it since the four executive 
directors.”  We’re basically moving fish populations.  It’s going to affect all 
the commercial fishermen and recreational fishermen in New Jersey. 
 
So we need to address the $4 billion boating industry that’s 
going to be impacted.  We need to address the fishing industry, both 
commercial and recreational fishing industry.  And we need to have a 
hearing--  And probably besides these two great Committees, we need to 
 
128 
 
 
bring in the Agriculture Committee, since they do fishery regulations and 
we divided that out years ago.  But I would appreciate it sometime -- 
looking for that, and bring in the commercial fishermen and recreational 
fishermen to sit and talk about how climate change is going to affect them 
and how Sandy is affecting them. 
 
Thank you. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up -- Loretta Dibble, from Manufactured Home Owners 
Association of New Jersey. 
L O R E T T A   J.   D I B B L E:  Hi.  My name is Loretta Dibble.  I’m a 
policy person from the Manufactured Home Owners Association of New 
Jersey.  I’m also President of Paradise Park Home Owners Association, and 
a person who lost their home during the hurricane. 
 
I have a couple of quick points.  Manufactured housing slips 
through the regulatory and policy cracks in New Jersey, and it’s now 
slipping through the recovery cracks.  The RREM program and the 
resettlement program are not being--  The manufactured homeowners who 
own their homes and live in lease-hold communities are not getting past the 
initial eligibility screening because they’re matching applications with land 
records, with deed records.  And if you’re a homeowner in a lease-hold 
community, you don’t own the land -- number one.   
 
And we are also not getting any solid information from DCA 
about how the rules and regulations govern these programs.  We’re getting 
denial letters that don’t tell us what the denial is for-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’ve heard that before for other 
homeowners. 
 
129 
 
 
 
MS. DIBBLE:  --and we’ve asked for copies of the rules and 
regulations that are being promulgated around these programs.  We are 
being referred to the frequently asked questions page on the website.  It just 
says “homeowner;” it doesn’t say anything about whether you own the 
property or not. 
 
I don’t think this is what HUD intended when they gave this 
money to New Jersey to do this.  So one, I would ask that DCA be 
transparent and tell us what the rules and regulations are; and two, is this 
purposeful to deny people who own their homes in lease-hold communities 
access to these programs, or is this just an accident?  Because it’s an 
oversight. 
 
We don’t know the answer to that, but we need to get the 
answer to that.  I represent over 30,000 homeowners in the State of New 
Jersey, which is the largest source of unsubsidized portable housing in the 
state.  And we need your attention. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Got it.  Gene Lepore is going to get your 
address; Assemblywoman Spencer and myself are going to send a letter to 
DCA asking for this information and why you’re being treated as, I don’t 
want to say second-class citizens-- 
 
MS. DIBBLE:  Well, we’re always treated as second-class 
citizens. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Maybe that you dropped through the 
cracks. 
 
MS. DIBBLE:  This is not unexpected. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Right. 
 
130 
 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But we do need your help.  You have to 
give us all the contact information. 
 
MS. DIBBLE:  Okay. 
 
And now my second point, very quickly, is I’m very 
disappointed.  There is a lack of enforcement of the existing consumer 
protection laws that are there for people who live in manufactured housing 
communities and people who live in rental housing.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Could you be specific? 
 
MS. DIBBLE:  There are rules and regulations about closures of 
these communities, protected tenancy laws, and what’s happening over and 
over again is people are taking insurance money, rebuilding, and then not 
letting renters, not letting homeowners back in.  They’re using this storm 
and the opportunities of this storm to do what you wouldn’t normally be 
able to do.  You would have to go through the Planned Real Estate 
Development Act, you would have to do other kinds of 18-month park 
closure notices-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Got it.  What we need, though, is not the 
general comment that this is happening.  We need at least one specific case 
where we can go-- 
 
MS. DIBBLE:  Well, I don’t want to be hit with a SLAPP suit 
for talking about specifics, but I’m happy to provide them to you privately. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  That would be good, 
because we’ve heard other things.  Earlier today we heard some testimony 
from the Legal Aid Society with regards to how renters were being treated 
and why they had come to them for assistance.  So certainly it appears as 
 
131 
 
 
though there are some -- I’m not going to say unintended consequences, but 
some things that are happening that require some attention. 
 
So if you would provide the information offline to either 
Senator Smith or myself, it will be helpful, and we will add it to the other 
complaints and issues and questions that we have for DCA. 
 
MS. DIBBLE:  Thank you very much for listening to me. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And perhaps you could get somebody 
who you know in the Association who has had this and is willing to give us 
the specifics.  Because I know what’s going to happen when we send the 
letter to the bureaucracy. 
 
MS. DIBBLE:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’re going to get a letter back saying, 
“Give us specifics.” 
 
MS. DIBBLE:  Well, thank you very much for holding this 
hearing. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Next up -- Simone Dannecker, New Jersey Housing. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF AUDIENCE:  (off mike) She 
testified already. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  She testified already; very 
good. 
 
And last, but not least, Bill Wolfe. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The anchor man. 
B I L L   W O L F E:  No, I don’t have anger today.  My name is Bill 
Wolfe. 
 
132 
 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Not anger -- anchor. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Oh, anchor. (laughter) 
 
MR. WOLFE:  Oh, anchor.  I thought--  Anger is also fitting in 
my testimony, too.  
 
I’ll just be very brief and focus on governance.  And I think  the 
most important statement made today -- despite the compelling testimony  
of people who have been destroyed and harmed by the storm -- was in your 
first 30 seconds, Mr. Chairman, where you noted that the Administration’s 
rebuild czar refused an invitation -- which goes to the fundamental question 
here.  
 
You heard compelling testimony from everybody from every 
interest -- housing, environment, social services, everything -- that there’s a 
deep frustration that people have -- lack of transparency, lack of 
participation.  One testimony said it was not like a democracy.  These all 
flow from the same source of--  You understand how government works.  
This is a question of the balance of powers between the Executive Branch 
and the Legislative Branch.  And the Executive Branch is not providing 
participation and transparency and accountability, but they’re taking away.  
You heard testimony on emergency rules -- which is extraordinary.  The 
Administrative Procedures Act is the only thing that holds the Executive 
Branch accountable to the legislative intent.  There are procedural 
protections there.  They are being ignored through emergency rulemaking 
procedures. 
 
I find it extraordinary that the HUD process -- billions of 
Federal taxpayer dollars are being spent and allocated with zero 
participation.  And that’s bad enough, but there’s no plan, there are no 
 
133 
 
 
policies against which these monies are allocated except -- that there’s a 
strategy behind them, that there’s coherence, internal logic.  There’s 
nothing. 
 
So when you have a Governor who believes that he has 
ultimate power -- when he has significant power to begin with -- but then 
comes in with an additional agenda, you guys have to beef it up even 
further.  So at this point, if you have a person of his authority denying an 
invitation to a legislative hearing of this magnitude, I would use subpoena 
power.  I would bring the entire Administration to the table through all the 
legislative committees.  You heard testimony that that’s through several 
committees.  And you we have to manage this process.   
 
And lastly, the most important thing is, again, being trained as 
a planner, I think Commissioner Mauriello -- or former Commissioner 
Mauriello -- had some very, very significant testimony again on some very 
detailed items -- that all can be resolved through planning.  And when you 
bring people around a table to solve problems you don’t get the kind of 
frustration and alienation and dysfunction that we’ve heard today. 
 
And just closing with a philosophical point:  What we’re seeing 
is not just a coastal vulnerability from the waves of a storm, we’re seeing the 
vulnerability of our entire government philosophy of the last 30 years, 
which is government is the problem; get government out of the way.  And I 
think what we have is the worst of all worlds -- where we have red tape for 
people, and we have no oversight and no regulations for the private sector. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
Okay.  Mr. Wolfe was the last person who we had signed up.  
No more-- 
 
134 
 
 
M O N I C A   M A L O N E: (off mike) I was signed up.  I was signed up 
before that other guy. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  What is your name?  Come 
forward. 
 
MS. MALONE:  Monica Malone. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Come on.  What’s your 
name? 
 
MS. MALONE:  Monica Malone.  And I signed up. 
 
My issue seems insignificant compared with people who have 
had their homes destroyed and their lives turned upside down.  But I think 
it’s solvable.  I want to make sure that it doesn’t happen to anyone else, 
because I expect more hurricanes. 
 
My boat was taken by AshBritt off private property.  I had to 
file a lawsuit against the State to get the boat back.  What I’m advocating is 
that the State have contingency contracts in place prior to a storm so that 
we don’t wind up with contracts like we had with AshBritt. 
 
I got an estimate of $450 to transport the boat from where they 
took it to back.  AshBritt billed the State $27,258.26 to transport the boat. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Wait, wait, wait.  You got 
an estimate for $450 to transfer the boat back from where AshBritt had 
hauled it, to where you had it.  And AshBritt charged the State $27,000 to 
move it the same--  Okay, go ahead. 
 
MS. MALONE:  Yes. (laughter)  Because under their contract 
they were allowed to charge $1,000 a foot for transporting boats -- which is 
an unreasonable fee but it was right there in the contract. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  I need a boat hauler. 
 
135 
 
 
 
MS. MALONE:  Yes.  There was a sunfish, a little sunfish that 
you put on the top of your car.  They charged $4,000 for transporting that.   
 
So my recommendation is that we put in place contingency 
contracts in advance.  We know we’re going to get more hurricanes, we 
know we’re going to need clean-up services.  If it’s done in advance, we have 
time to look at the contracts, examine them, and not allow them to slip 
ridiculous things like that into the contracts. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  The devil’s in the details; 
understood. 
 
MS. MALONE:  I’m also advocating that there be a law that 
people should not have to pay for the return of possessions that were tossed 
around by a storm.  If a hurricane comes through, you shouldn’t have to 
pay to get your possessions back.  And I know that there were unscrupulous 
contractors; there was AshBritt, there was--  The State stated in the 
newspaper that they would not be charging people for the return of the 
boats; that FEMA would be paying those fees and reimbursing the State.  
That was not the case.  The State would not release the boats unless we 
paid that. 
 
I’m also advocating that there be some sort of an ombudsman 
or citizen advocate to help in these situations.  I was told--  I went to 
everybody in the State -- I’m a good advocate for myself -- all the way up to 
the Assistant Commissioner of the DEP.  I was told, “We put this policy in 
effect and there’s no way to intervene.  There’s no way to circumvent it.  
The only thing you can do is wait for your boat to go up for auction and 
buy it back.”  So pay the $27,000, or wait for it to go up for auction and 
buy it back.  That’s not acceptable.  “There’s nothing we can do.”  “Well, 
 
136 
 
 
you took it off private property; it was a mistake.”  “Yes, but there’s nothing 
we can do.”  So we need somebody who can intervene in a process when 
crazy things start happening. 
 
We also need better oversight of the contractors, because there 
were a lot of abuses.  We have a policy in place.  Part of the contract was 
that they had to get permission from a landowner before they went onto 
private property and removed anything.  They did not adhere to that.  The 
discovery documents I received indicated that they actually certified that it 
was not on private property.  They had a list of boats they were going to 
pick up; they had to confirm with the State and say that none of these were 
on private property.  We need better oversight of what they’re doing.  We 
all know about the trash-hauling fiasco scandal.  We need somebody--  
We’re paying for this, you know?  He’s funding Christie’s campaign, but 
we’re paying for it.   
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  You did get your boat back, though, 
right? 
 
MS. MALONE:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  Okay, and you-- 
 
MS. MALONE:  We’re going to go work on it this afternoon. 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  And you didn’t have to pay the 
$27,000? 
 
MS. MALONE:  Correct. 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  Okay.  I just wanted the members to be 
aware of that. 
 
MS. MALONE:  Yes, but I did have to file a lawsuit at great 
expense and taking humongous amounts of time.  Not everybody has the 
 
137 
 
 
freedom to take off of work to pursue something like that.  Nobody should 
have to go through that to get their possessions back. 
 
Also, the State was using the Abandoned Vessel Act to justify 
what they were doing in terms of the boats with Sandy, in terms of 
justifying what AshBritt was doing.  I think the idea of an abandoned vessel 
is completely inconsistent with the concept of a hurricane.  A hurricane 
comes and takes your boat down the street; you didn’t abandon it, you 
didn’t take it down the street and put it there.  That’s not what the 
Abandoned Vessel Act was meant for.  We need some revisions in that to 
keep the State from using it for hurricane situations. 
 
And also there are provisions in the law for the State to 
confiscate boats -- which they also seem to think applied in this situation.  
And it does not apply in a hurricane situation.  But there’s no provision 
that they have to give notice, and there should be a provision.  The State 
knew who the boat belonged to -- we had had conversations about it -- and 
they did not give any notice before they removed it.  They were on my 
private property, took the boat -- no notice.  So they should be required to 
give notice before they do something like that. 
 
We’re going to have more hurricanes.  We need to fear those 
hurricanes.  But for some of us, our fear is of Governor Christie and his 
contractors, and that fear is stronger than the storm. 
 
So thank you for listening to me. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
I think that wraps up the testimony for today.  On behalf of the 
New Jersey State Assembly and the members of the Environment and Solid 
Waste 
Committee 
-- 
Holly 
Schepisi, 
Assemblyman 
Chivukula, 
 
138 
 
 
Assemblyman John Amodeo who is here today, and myself, Grace Spencer   
-- I want to say thank you for participating.   
 
I’m not sure if there are any comments that any of the 
Committee members would like to make.   
 
Assemblyman Chivukula. 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN CHIVUKULA:  I think it’s very late.  I don’t 
want to hold it up.   
 
It was a great meeting; thank you very much, Chairwoman and 
Chairman Smith for holding this meeting.  I think this is what we--  We 
have to take it to the people so that people can tell us their difficulties, so 
that then we can go back to the Administration and try to see how we can 
really cut the red tape rather than talk about it.  I learned a lot.  I am a 
substitute on this Committee, but I learned a lot -- so much that--  So many 
rules that are being misused.  So we need to fight back. 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  And also I neglected 
Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, who is here as well. 
 
With regard to everything that’s been provided -- thank you. 
And those of you who we have asked to provide information, please make 
sure you do so because, indeed, there will be follow-up, and there will be 
additional hearings to further the discussion about Sandy and whether or 
not we are stronger than the storm. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  On behalf of the Senate Committee we 
thank everybody for participating.   
 
Senator Whelan or Senator Greenstein, is there anything you 
want to say? 
 
139 
 
 
 
140 
 
SENATOR WHELAN:  Good job, Mr. Chairman and Madam 
Chair. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Excellent. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The meeting is adjourned. 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN SPENCER:  Thank you. 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED)  
 
 
