 
Hearing Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Public Hearing 
before 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 163 
 
“Amends Constitution to dedicate all State moneys received from settlements and awards 
 in cases of environmental contamination for certain environmental purposes” 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 10 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
June 22, 2015 
1:00 p.m. 
 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice Chair  
Senator Christopher “Kip” Bateman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Judith L. Horowitz                        
Kevil Duhon                           Brian Ahrens 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
Senate Majority  
 
Senate Republican 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
Committee Aide  
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
John T. Tomicki 
Executive Director 
New Jersey League of American Families 
1 
 
Madeline Emde 
Conservation Associate 
New Jersey Audubon Society 
3 
 
Bill Wolfe 
Private Citizen 
5 
 
David Pringle 
Campaign Director 
New Jersey Clean Water Action 
10 
 
Jeff Tittel 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Chapter 
Sierra Club 
11 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Madeline Emde 
1x 
 
E-mail, addressed to 
Senate Environment and Energy Committee 
From  
Deborah A. Mans 
Baykeeper and Executive Director 
New York/New Jersey Baykeeper 
2x 
 
 
pnf: 1-13 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  Good afternoon, everyone. 
 
We’re here today to have a hearing on SCR-163. 
 
Senator Greenstein will be here momentarily; we have Senator 
Bateman present; and of course, I’m present -- Senator Smith. 
 
We have a number of people who have turned in slips to 
testify.  Let me ask you to-- 
 
Doug O’Malley, Environment New Jersey, in favor, no need to 
testify; Mr. Tomicki, League of American Families, there’s no indication of 
in favor or in opposition. 
 
Mr. Tomicki, are you here?  Come on up. 
 
SERGEANT-AT-ARMS:  (off mike) Is that testimony, sir? 
J O H N   T.   T O M I C K I:  No. 
 
SERGEANT-AT-ARMS:  Okay. 
 
MR. TOMICKI:  It’s the bill. 
 
SERGEANT-AT-ARMS:  Have a seat. 
 
MR. TOMICKI:  Pardon? 
 
SERGEANT-AT-ARMS:  Have a seat. 
 
MR. TOMICKI:  Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman and members 
of the Committee.  My name is John Tomicki, Executive Director of the 
League of American Families.  We represent about 100,000 households in 
the State of New Jersey. 
 
I recognize this is a public hearing where discussions concerning 
approval or disapproval -- you’re not able to enter into a colloquy on it.  
You’re here for the statutory requirement; so we would be very brief. 
 
In looking at the text of the proposed legislation when you had 
it in Committee, it becomes somewhat confusing to an ordinary person.  
 
 
 
2 
You’re saying, “Hey, we’re going to do this for the principle purposes 
exhibited in Article this, or Article this, Section that.”  You have to kind of 
know what all that is.  So when I look at the actual -- what will appear on 
the ballot, it poses -- it starts out with a question:  “Do you believe we 
should dedicate--”  And then a person will say, “Okay, dedicate it to what?”  
 
So the monies would have to be used only for environmental 
purposes, and most people want to have a cleaner, safer environment.  So 
anybody would say, “Yes,” but when you look at the interpretative 
statement again, I have this constitutional issue; I don’t think -- I think the 
intent of what you were trying do is not carried out correctly in the 
proposed language to amend the Constitution, nor in the interpretive 
statement.  Because if moneys that are going to come into the State as a 
result of some litigation or in a judgment  -- in the past, as I understand it, 
it used to go into the General Fund.  You’re trying to say -- which makes 
sense to me, in one area -- if there was some incident that caused 
environmental damage and there is recovery -- okay, we want to put that 
money to that, to clean it up.   
 
But the interpretive statement goes way beyond that; that, in 
effect, we can use it for other purposes -- underground storage tanks, 
preserving Open Space, farmland -- so it goes beyond.  So I think what your 
intent was -- if I understood it correctly -- was to deal with those monies 
that are coming in as a result of environmental damage, where there is 
litigation and recovery.  You’re trying to say, “We don’t want to put it in 
the General Fund anymore; we want to put it in a special fund.”   
 
That will become an interesting pressure issue, because then 
what will happen to the budget fight?  Well, you’ll say, “We used to put  
 
 
 
3 
$30 million,” -- let’s just take a figure -- “into this to handle these other 
problems.”  So what they’ll do is, “Oh, you have dedicated funds,” so it 
takes it out.   
 
I understand where you were going.  I know this is a public 
hearing.  I don’t think it was -- respectfully, Senator, and you know the 
respect that I have for you on environmental issues -- I think it should have 
been phrased differently.  I don’t know whether you’re going to get it up in 
time; whether there will be changes allowed on the floor -- another whole 
problem, but we will deal with that later.   
 
Right now -- and we never speak about this much -- the League 
of American Families is a total volunteer organization.  And right now, the 
lawyers with whom I’m dealing are with involved in trials, as well as the 
environmental people I deal with -- I haven’t been able to get everybody 
together; because I’m not all the expert on those issues.  But we’ve been 
meeting; particularly as I shared before, we’re getting deeper into the carbon 
sequestration area.  That’s a separate issue. 
 
But for this -- we’re not opposed, we’re not supportive.  We 
think it needs correction.  And I don’t know whether there will be the time; 
I don’t know whether you intend on trying to get it up on the ballot by this 
November.  I would have no idea; I don’t even know whether you can 
comment on that and let us know.  
 
That’s all we have to say today.  And thank you so much for 
your courtesy. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
Madeline Emde, E-M-D-E, from New Jersey Audubon, in favor. 
M A D E L I N E   E M DE:  Thanks for the opportunity to testify. 
 
 
 
4 
 
My name is Madeline Emde, and I’m a Conservation Associate 
at New Jersey Audubon Society.  We’re one of the oldest and largest 
conservation membership organizations in the state. 
 
So I actually submitted written comments before the meeting, 
and I’ll just be kind of going over a few things. 
 
New Jersey Audubon has worked extensively to protect habitats 
across New Jersey, and has been an advocate and responder in protecting 
New Jersey’s wildlife, wetlands, and other natural resources from oil spills.  
As a result, we have significant experience with the impact of various spills 
and discharges on birds, wetlands, and other wildlife habitat. 
 
We’ve also supported statutory and regulatory efforts to protect 
New Jersey’s natural resources from hazardous spills. 
 
Natural resources damages is an incredibly important, 
statutorily authorized program that came as a result of our State’s 
experiences with incremental spills and discharges, and our history of 
industrialization.  NRD requires polluters to go beyond cleanup and pay for 
restoration and compensation for public loss of use of the natural resources.  
It recognizes incremental pollutions which can be just as devastating as 
catastrophic spills. 
 
The raiding of funds has been a significant and widespread 
issue in the past several Administrations.  The court decision Camden v. 
Byrne allowed for the appropriations to override other statutes, permitting 
this raiding of funds dedicated for one purpose to be used for another.  
Voter-approved constitutional amendments would be the way to protect 
these funds for their intended purposes. 
 
 
 
5 
 
We strongly support this resolution and the amendments to the 
resolution that were passed through Committee two weeks ago; and we 
hope that the funds for NRD will continue to be used with special attention 
to the nexus between injury and the use of payment.  This can be within 
the same community through geographic tie, or by identifying a resource 
used by the impacted population. 
 
And finally, we believe that it’s important for the connection 
between the injury and the use of funds. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to testify. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Madeline. 
 
Stacy McCormack, Littoral Society, in favor, no need to testify; 
Bill Wolfe, with amendments. 
B I L L   W O L F E:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Bill Wolfe, Bordentown. 
 
I want to reiterate and follow up on our testimony.  You recall 
that my concern was the failure to include compensation for lost use 
explicitly.  And we just heard the last witness correctly characterize the 
purpose for natural resource injuries -- which is both restoration and 
compensation for lost use; that’s the legal scope of that word.  That word  -- 
the scope of the injury compensation requirement under trustee law -- is 
broader than restore.   
 
And I brought to your attention the fact that the Exxon 
settlement -- the majority of the injuries were compensatory damages that 
trace back through time.  You have a time element.  So you not only have a 
scope element, you have a timing element.  So to reach back into the past--  
And Senator Thompson objected, so this is not a -- it’s not like we don’t 
have a policy debate here.  And so we had a case in controversy in the 
 
 
 
6 
Exxon settlement where that was going to be judicially resolved; it wasn’t.  
We had a letter to the Legislature warning you that the Paulsboro oil depot 
damage assessment was reduced by 85 percent because it excluded 
compensatory damages.  Now, we’re talking about cats and dogs here.  And 
you put the cat in there; you didn’t put the dog in.  So you have to have the 
cat and the dog in.  So I would rather have the cat and the dog in -- 
particularly given that the dog is the majority of the money, all right? 
 
So that has to be in there.  And I’d rather waste a year and get 
it right than try to get it up on the ballot this year.  Because it’s going to be 
a problem in the Assembly, I understand, so I don’t--  You know, it’s a crap 
shoot.  My point is, get it right.  And don’t take my word for it -- take the 
Commissioner’s own letter, which lays that out in detail. 
 
You know, consult -- call the Attorney General’s Office and get 
some expert legal opinions -- court decisions that deal with the scope, the 
obligation, the timeframes, the triggers.  You know, I’m not a lawyer, but I 
know an awful lot.  And these are really significant, weighty legal issues that 
are right before us. 
 
SENATOR SMITH: (addressing staff, off mike) He’s saying 
we’re not getting a lot of money coming in.  He’s saying we don’t get 
compensatory. 
 
Bill, just to make sure:  Your position is, you think we’re not 
getting all the money from the environmental settlements. 
 
MR. WOLFE:  Correct.  And so-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And you believe compensatory, in 
particular, is not covered? 
 
 
 
7 
 
MR. WOLFE:  Correct.  And there are legal reasons, Mr. 
Chairman, hear me out. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right. 
 
MR. WOLFE:  There’s a legal reason, which I just tried to run 
through, very quickly.  But there’s also what’s called a discretionary issue.  
And because this is a constitutional question that goes to the voters-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MR. WOLFE:  --it’s not the traditional dog-and-pony of a 
Legislature passes a law and delegates authority to the Executive Branch to 
implement.  And it’s not as if we don’t have a track record with this 
Administration as to how they construe environmental law, all right?  We 
know what they do -- and let’s be clear.   
 
So even with that knowledge, that would be sufficient to say, 
“You’ve got to be precise.” 
 
But there’s also a scope issue.  And the word restore does not 
include--  It could include, but it’s a judicial question.  Do you want to punt 
to the courts?  Do you want to let the courts resolve this?  This is what the 
Exxon deal--  This is what I’ve tried to get out.  The background from the 
Exxon deal is not that Governor Christie cut a corrupt deal for campaign 
cash and all this other stuff.  There were legal vulnerabilities in the State’s 
argument about the methodology costing out and quantifying the resource 
injury.   And that resolved around, like, do you go back to 1890, where --
and what were people doing in using wetlands in 1890?  Were they 
paddling canoes by there?  I mean, all this kind of stuff.  So they bypassed 
that debate and they made a Habitat Equivalency evaluation.  They just did 
 
 
 
8 
it on an acre-by-acre basis, getting away from the economic issues of how 
you do an economic valuation of an injury.  
 
But that doesn’t get you past the timing question -- you see 
what I mean?  So they used--  If you read their Habitat Equivalency 
Analysis, you’d understand this stuff.  They went back in time, and then 
they discounted, over that period of time -- like a cash, like a bank account, 
a discount, an economic discount function, to discount past and present 
values.  But they used it for acreage.  This is very complicated.  So my point 
is, the lawyers--  This is like a legal minefield; they love this stuff because 
they, then, have a basis to legitimately argue.  I don’t even want to go there; 
put the word in there, and it takes it off the table.  Because these guys are 
going to come back and say, “Look, the voters have spoken.  They used the 
word restore.  They just want the site restored; no punitive compensation.” 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It doesn’t say that.  Bill, it doesn’t say 
that. 
 
MR. WOLFE:  It says restore. 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  That’s what they can use it for. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  They say-- 
 
MR. WOLFE:  Why even have this debate?  Just put it in there.  
I mean, why leave something like that dangling? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It says, “The amount annually credited 
pursuant to this paragraph shall be dedicated, and shall be appropriated 
from time to time by the Legislature, only for paying for costs incurred by 
the State to repair damage to, restore, or permanently protect the State’s 
natural resources; or for any of the purposes enumerated in Article VIII, 
Section II, paragraph 6 of the State Constitution, except that no more than 
 
 
 
9 
five percent of the moneys appropriated shall be expended for any 
administrative costs of the State or its departments, agencies, or authorities 
for the purposes authorized in this paragraph.” 
 
And our view of that is that it basically means that it can be 
used for almost any environmental purpose. 
 
MR. WOLFE:  I’m not talking about the use of the money.  I’m 
talking about how you determine how much.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, well-- 
 
MR. WOLFE:  And there are two ways to determine how much. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The flip side of that, it says that -- where 
is it? 
 
MR. WOLFE:  I sent you the definition. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All settlements -- “There shall be credited 
annually to a special account in the General Fund an amount equivalent to 
the revenue annually derived from all settlements-- 
 
MR. WOLFE:  Right; that’s a different issue. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --and judicial and administrative awards 
collected by the State in connection with claims based on environmental 
contamination.”  
 
MR. WOLFE:  I understand that.  We’re talking about apples 
and oranges here. 
 
What I’m trying to focus on is what does the injury mean?  And 
you heard the prior testimony -- which was correct -- which says the injury, 
the compensation is for-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes; that, I think, is going to be a 
statutory issue. 
 
 
 
10 
 
MR. WOLFE:  What I’m saying is-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t think it’s constitutional. 
 
MR. WOLFE:  --by using the word in the Constitution restore 
without the other prong of restore and compensate, which is the--  If I’m the 
Natural Resource Trustee and I have this hat on, I get the compensation for 
-- I get the restoration of the resource, then I get a check for the lost use of 
that resource for 100 years.  That was the debate in Exxon; that was the 
debate in Paulsboro. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, we think we have it covered.  But I’m 
going to let you and Judy arm wrestle, (laughter) and whoever wins-- 
 
MR. WOLFE:  I’ll tell you, me and Judy arm wrestled on the 
Highlands Act -- who won?  Bingo. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t remember--   What is that? 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  I don’t know what he’s talking about. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t know what you’re talking about 
there, Bill. 
 
MR. WOLFE:  I do. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, so New Jersey Recreation and 
Park Association, in favor, no need to testify; Dave Pringle, in favor. 
 
Mr. Pringle. 
D A V I D   P R I N G L E:  Thank you, Mr. Chair.  David Pringle, New 
Jersey Campaign Director for Clean Water Action. 
 
We 
strongly 
support 
the 
resolution 
-- 
constitutional 
amendment.  Thank you for making it happen. 
 
Most importantly, it stops the raids of environmental funds; 
and it’s especially important because if we don’t do this, it’s the equivalent 
 
 
 
11 
of putting up the State’s natural resources for sale or letting them get 
trashed to fund the general operating expenses of the State.  And while this 
is after the fact, that’s in fact what we’re going to be doing if we continue to 
raid these funds.  And I don’t think anybody would say let’s -- if we had a 
pristine wetlands in these areas, we would trash them and then fund the 
General Fund.  And that’s what we would be doing here without this 
constitutional dedication. 
 
My reading of the question is it doesn’t cover compensatory 
damages; it doesn’t say the State can’t go after them.  It just says that 
whatever damages there are, it wouldn’t be necessarily constitutionally 
dedicated.  So I would hope the State would continue to go after them.  
 
I 
would 
prefer 
to 
see 
compensatory 
damages 
also 
constitutionally dedicated, but we also can’t afford to wait another year.  If 
the Exxon settlement happens this year, that’s minimally tens, and likely 
hundreds of millions of dollars.  So we can’t afford to wait until 2016 to 
constitutionally dedicate this.  If we can get language fixed and still get on 
the ballot this year, then mazel tov.  But I’ll take this, and attempt to--  I’ll 
take half a loaf now, and try to make more of a loaf, on this one, better 
later. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
Jeff Tittel, Sierra Club. 
J E F F   T I T T E L:  Thank you. 
 
As we head into Budget Week, and try to nail down another 
budget, we know what happens is that everything in this building becomes 
part of the art of deal.  And our concern is that when you have these kinds 
 
 
 
12 
of budget shortfalls, the environment becomes a convenient excuse to raid 
those funds.  And for us, we believe that this dedication is critical because it 
sends a very clear message, once the voters approve it, that when you 
damage, pollute, destroy natural resources that belong to all of us, the 
funding should go back to environmental programs to try to make those 
communities and those people whole -- but also for other programs that 
benefit the State to help mitigate for that damage.   
 
And that’s why we’re here, because it’s really upholding the 
concept of polluter pay.  And it becomes even more glaring because of the old 
saying, “Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.”  They 
already did it on the Passaic River last year.  We do not want to see it ever 
happen again.   
 
And that’s why we’re here.  Because the Exxon settlement -- 
maybe it was settled for a lot less money because they’re trying to grab the 
money for the budget holes.  Maybe the reason that we took 16 additional 
sites; and took $8.9 billion -- that could have been $10 billion, or $12 
billion, or $15 billion and settled it for $225 million is to plug a budget hole 
or fund something.  And so I think it’s critical.   
 
And my only, sort of, sad part of this is that I wish we could do 
it with the Clean Energy funds too, because of the raids that have been 
happening there.  And so for us, we think that this is not only an important 
issue, but remember:  These lands are all held in the public trust.  They 
belong to the people of New Jersey.  When you destroy or damage them, 
you’re supposed to compensate the public, not the politicians.  So this goes 
a long way to ensuring that our Constitution protects the public and 
 
 
 
13 
protects the Public Trust Doctrine, and protects those resources that belong 
to all of us. 
 
So thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Tittel. 
 
Anyone else? (no response) 
 
As there are no other members of the public wishing to speak, 
we are going to close the public hearing. 
 
Thank you for participating; thank you, Senator Greenstein 
and Senator Bateman.   
 
And Senator Sweeney said he’s going to have a summer session; 
hopefully we’ll get it passed before that deadline.  And I am hopeful that we 
can talk to the Assembly and see if they’ll have a summer session as well. 
 
Everyone have a great day.  Thank you for coming. 
 
(HEARING CONCLUDED) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
