 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
“The committee will hear testimony from invited guests and the public 
 on electronic waste recycling.  
Also, a draft bill allocating funding for open space, farmland, and historic preservation  
will be distributed  and committee members will have a policy discussion on that issue” 
 
The following bill will be considered: 
 
Senate Bill 2424 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 10 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
February 9, 2015 
10:00 a.m. 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice Chair  
Senator Richard J. Codey 
Senator Samuel D. Thompson 
 
 
 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Judith L. Horowitz                        
Kevil Duhon                           Carlos Cruz 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
Senate Majority  
 
Senate Republican 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
Committee Aide  
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
John R. Purves, Esq. 
Private Citizen 
3 
 
Jim Entwistle 
President 
Newtech Recycling Inc. 
3 
 
Jeff Tittel 
Director 
New Jersey Chapter 
Sierra Club 
15 
 
Michael F. Cerra 
Director 
Government Affairs 
New Jersey State League of Municipalities 
17 
 
Jeff Kolakowski 
Vice President 
Government Affairs 
New Jersey Builders Association 
22 
 
Monica Gismondi 
Vice President-Program 
Association of New Jersey Recyclers, and 
Recycling Coordinator 
Gloucester County Improvement Authority, and 
Representing 
New Jersey Association of Counties 
32 
 
John G. Donnadio, Esq. 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Association of Counties 
32 
 
Paul L. McCall  
Director  
Public Works 
Somerset County, and 
Representing 
New Jersey Association of Counties 
32 
 
 
 
            TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Page  
John Holub 
President 
New Jersey Retail Merchants Association 
44 
       
Walter L. Alcorn 
Vice President 
Environmental Affairs and Industry Sustainability 
The Consumer Electronics Association 
48 
           
David A. Thompson 
Director 
Corporate Environmental Department 
Panasonic Corporation of America, and 
President 
Electronic Manufactures Recycling Management Company 
57 
 
 
Carole Tolmachewich 
Principal Planner 
Middlesex County, and 
Board of Directors 
Association of New Jersey Recyclers 
69 
 
 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Open Space Implementation Bill Discussion Points 
submitted by 
Senate Environment and Energy Committee 
1x 
 
Testimony, and 
Internet Links 
submitted by 
John R. Purves, Esq. 
5x 
 
News articles 
Illinois amendment aims to fix e-scrap program, and 
CRT glass brought Creative Recycling Systems down, and 
Piles of CRT glass sit at closed Dlubak site 
E-Scrap News 
submitted by 
Jim Entwistle 
16x 
 
 
 
 
 
          TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Page  
Testimony 
submitted by 
Michael F. Cerra 
23x 
 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Walter L. Alcorn 
31x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
David A. Thompson 
34x 
           
Testimony 
submitted by 
John Toth 
Board Member 
Jersey Coast Anglers Association, and 
Board Member 
New Jersey Outdoor Alliance 
36x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Wayne D. DeFeo 
DeFeo Associates 
38x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Jessica Evans 
Post Hurricane Sandy Fellow 
New York/New Jersey Baykeeper 
41x 
 
pnf: 1-74
 
 
 
1 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  I know Senator Codey is 
on the building; Senator Greenstein said she’s going to be five--  She’s in 
transit; she expects to be in 10 to 15 minutes.  Senator Bateman is out 
today.  So Senator Thompson and I are here representing the bipartisan 
coalition for a cleaner New Jersey. 
 
So we don’t waste time -- because we really have a lot of very 
important stuff on the agenda, we’re going to start the e-waste hearing now; 
but we will interrupt it to go to a discussion on Open Space, and then 
Senator Codey’s bill.  And then we’ll come back to e-waste.  But let’s not 
lose any time. 
 
So can I have the slips for e-waste?  Okay.  And maybe a little 
philosophic-- 
 
MR. DUHON (Senate Majority Aide):  At some point-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What’s that? 
 
MR. DUHON:  At some point, we’ll call the roll, but it could 
be later. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, you could call the roll, but you’ll 
know people as they come in. 
 
MS. HOROWITZ (Committee Aide):  I can wait. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And we are taking testimony; be careful 
what you say, it is being recorded, all right? 
 
The background on e-waste is, we have had a program now for 
three years -- five year, all right.  Anybody here from the DEP? (no 
response)  Invited; we would love to have their comments.  Invited on Open 
Space -- two of the most serious issues this State is facing; invited -- no one 
here.  It’s a shame. 
 
 
 
2 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  They said they’re not scheduled-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, right. 
 
So here’s the problem on Open Space.  We had a program, I 
guess, about five years--  Does that sound about right? 
 
MR. DUHON:  That sounds right. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And it’s a major problem for the State of 
New Jersey -- and for the world, for that matter.  But we, being a high-tech 
state, and having citizens who are very high-tech oriented and who love 
their televisions, generate lots of it.  And the problem five years ago, when 
we first looked at it, was we did not have an e-waste program.  We didn’t 
want all this stuff going into our landfills or, consequently, into our air and 
water.  So New Jersey wanted to have a robust e-waste program. 
 
 
And we looked at the various structures for e-waste programs 
around the country at that time.  We had a huge discussion about whether 
there should be an advanced recovery fee.  The industry said, “Please, we 
don’t want an advanced recovery fee.  California is off its rocker; we 
shouldn’t do that.  And we should just bill the manufacturers for their 
proportional production of e-waste on the State.” 
 
So now it’s five years later.  And I’ve had people come into my 
office saying our program is not working real well.   
 
So our point today is to find out--  I would have loved to have 
had the DEP here to give us a little report on how well it’s doing.  
Unfortunately, they have other scheduling issues.  So we’re going to get 
some testimony. 
 
Oh, good.  Senator Codey is now here, and we’re waiting for 
Senator Greenstein before we get to the other stuff. 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
Is this the first slip that I said I was going to do first? 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  (Indiscernible). 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The first slip -- the first guy? 
 
There is one witness who brought this to our attention.  Would 
you come forward?  
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  John Purves? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:   Is it Mr. Purves -- is that right? 
J O H N   R.   P U R V E S,   Esq.:  Yes, that’s me. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  All right, Mr. Purves, you are our 
first guy. 
 
MR. PURVES:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And then the guy to your right -- left, two 
seats, is our second witness.  Why don’t you both come up? 
 
MR. PURVES:  I’ll bring him up. 
 
SENATOR SMITH: I think you are complementary to each 
other. 
J I M   E N T W I S T L E:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So it’s Mr. Purves and Mr.-- 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Entwistle. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  And, gentlemen, for the record--  
Remember, you’re being recorded.  So if you would identify yourselves and 
your affiliations. 
 
MR. PURVES:  Yes.  My name is John Purves.  I’m am 
attorney in the State of New Jersey.  I represent a number of Class D 
recycling centers, which are the electronic waste recyclers in New Jersey.   
 
 
 
4 
 
And I’ll begin my testimony.  I have handed out, I think to all 
the members of the Committee, copies of my testimony and copies of a 
white paper that was prepared back in the summer to address this issue 
with the Department of Environmental Protection; as well as letters of 
support from the Association of New Jersey Recyclers and the Association 
of New Jersey Hazardous Waste Collectors.  In addition, I’ve also provided 
you with copies of articles where this is an issue that’s facing others states as 
well.  And I think I’ve provided to the Committee, through Ms. Horowitz, I 
think 20 articles as well.  They are not copies today, but I did send that by 
e-mail to her; so there is additional information as well. 
 
I’ll start out by thanking Chairman Smith and members of the 
Committee for the opportunity to talk to you today.  I have been a legal 
and technical consultant for over 25 years in the field of recycling and solid 
waste.  I’ve represented many private companies, and I currently represent 
virtually all types of recycling facilities right now in terms of new 
development in New Jersey, and expansion. 
 
Prior to that, I was with the U.S. EPA and the New Jersey DEP; 
but it’s probably been 30 years since I was here representing the 
Department, and I’m not speaking for the Department today. 
 
I currently represent a number of Class D recycling companies.  
They are called Class D recycling centers; but Class D simply means that 
they are allowed to recycle electronic waste.  So these are the e-waste 
recyclers in New Jersey.  And, in fact, we should be really very thankful and 
happy that we have a complete collection in the recycling infrastructure in 
New Jersey.  Back in 2008, the Electronic Waste Recycling Act was passed; 
implementation began in 2009.  It was relatively easy at that time, because 
 
 
 
5 
we had a complete infrastructure for recycling electronic waste in place 
already.  Unlike a lot of states, which didn’t have that at the time they 
passed similar laws, we had that system in place already. 
 
It operated very well for many years -- for the initial years of 
the development of this whole program.  It operated very smoothly, 
primarily because we had the system in place.  We had a system whereby 
residents would bring electronic waste to places like the Goodwill store, or 
they would bring them to municipal and county facilities.  Most of our 
efforts, most of the tonnage, most of the recycling that we were engaged in 
at that time was really through collection programs by municipalities and 
counties, whereby they would take the material in -- whether from drop-offs 
from homeowners or from collection programs by the towns themselves -- 
and they would consolidate that material, and they would contract with 
recycling companies -- these Class D recyclers -- to recycle and remove the 
electronic waste.  It worked very well.  It worked very well because recyclers 
were paid a proper amount, compensated properly for the recycling of these 
materials.  And we actually were flourishing in terms of how our recycling 
was going forward.  I’ve represented clients who, a couple of years ago, had 
to greatly expand.  They had to relocate and expand within the state 
because of the amount of material that was being recycled in New Jersey.  It 
was working very well. 
 
In 2013, that began to change.  What happened was, 
manufacturers who were obligated under the law to take back this material  
-- to pay for this material, and take it back -- began to pay a lesser and lesser 
amount of compensation to the recyclers.  And the recyclers at that time 
were not being paid for the full costs of recycling these materials.   
 
 
 
6 
 
That continued into 2014; and in 2014, we saw, actually, two 
things happen:  We saw a significant drop-off in terms of compensation to 
recyclers so that they weren’t being paid truly for the cost of their efforts;  
and secondly, under the law where manufacturers were to submit plans to 
the State for their allocation of material to take back, they weren’t 
committing with these recycling facilities for the full commitment of what 
was being collected.  And, as a result, we had facilities that were overflowing 
with electronic waste because the manufacturers weren’t taking back the 
material, nor were they being compensated properly for this. 
 
So now we have a situation in New Jersey where the recycling 
facilities have notified county government and municipal government that 
they can no longer take back the material in the way the law was intended.  
The law intended for this to be free and convenient to the consumer.  In 
other words, residents were able to bring back their electronic waste to the 
Goodwill store, or other locations, or collect it through the government 
programs -- the collection programs -- and once they were consolidated by 
the counties and the municipalities, they would contract with electronic 
waste recyclers -- the Class D facilities -- that would come in and take the 
material, free and convenient.  Well, free and convenient only works if the 
recyclers are being paid in a fair manner from manufacturers that are 
required to take this back.   
 
It’s my understanding that the intent of the Legislature was 
that the cost of recycling electronic waste was to be borne by the 
manufacturers; that’s my understanding in terms of dealing with these 
facilities.  I think it’s the understanding by most involved in this whole 
program -- that it’s the responsibility on the part of manufacturers to take 
 
 
 
7 
back--  Their obligation is to recycle this material; the cost is to be borne by 
the manufacturing industry.    
 
That is not happening today.  As a result of insufficient 
compensation, recycling facilities are notifying municipalities and county 
government that they can’t take it for free; they have to charge.  They have 
to charge the true cost -- the fair cost for providing the collection, the 
recycling, the processing of these materials, and getting it back to the 
manufacturers.  As a result of this, municipalities and counties are finding 
that their costs are rising dramatically.  In many cases, we have counties 
now that are suspending programs; we have municipalities that have 
notified the Class D facilities they can’t pay for this material so they are 
suspending their programs as well.  And I think we’re going to hear 
testimony a little later from county government where, as a result of 
programs being stopped or suspended, we now have a real concern about 
illegal dumping of electronic waste throughout the state. 
 
So that’s where we are at this point in time.  We have a lack of 
-- insufficient compensation for the costs of these materials, and we do not 
have--   Here we are, in the second month of 2015, and Class D facilities are 
not getting commitments from the manufacturers and their representatives 
for taking back this material, at any cost.   
 
So we now, again, have warehouses starting to fill up; and we 
truly do -- at this moment in time we’re having warehouses and facilities 
that are filling up with electronic waste because they have no commitment 
by the manufacturers to take back this material. 
 
The Class D facilities have met with counties, have met with 
DEP; we’ve met those involved in this industry.  And we’ve indicated that 
 
 
 
8 
the current law is not working, and that we really need to change the law in 
order to place the responsibility back on the manufacturers and have an 
effective program that does not cost the consumer, nor cost municipal and 
county governments, the cost of recycling this material -- because that’s 
what’s happening at this point in time. 
 
So we’re suggesting a number of changes.  One change is that 
there be a responsibility on the part of manufacturers to take back an 
unlimited amount of weight, an unlimited amount of this material.  In other 
words, manufacturers will be responsible to take back what is collected, not 
just what plans are submitted to the Department in a sense of what possible 
allocation to give each company.  It doesn’t work very well when you go 
back to the recycling facilities that are collecting this material from all levels 
of government.  We need to have the responsibility where manufacturers 
take back all of the material collected in New Jersey. 
 
A second suggestion is that regulations and fees be applied 
equally to in-state facilities as well as out-of-state facilities.  We had a very, 
very comprehensive regulation -- or regulatory scheme involving Class D 
facilities.  They pay some of the highest fees in the country.  They go 
through a very lengthy process in terms of being permitted by the DEP.  
And we have out-of-state facilities that bear none of that responsibility.  
They don’t pay fees, and we feel that there ought to be equality in terms of 
regulation of both in-state and out-of-state facilities in terms of being able 
to take electronic waste from our citizens. 
 
A third item, and probably the most important, is fair and 
reasonable compensation to recyclers.  There are other states that do have a 
system in place where the recycling facilities are paid for the proper costs of 
 
 
 
9 
recycling these materials.  That way that cost is borne by manufacturers, 
and not borne by government or by our citizens.   
 
We also suggest a couple other minor--  Those are the major 
points.  We suggest some minor adjustments to the law that would add 
additional components of electronic waste to be recycled.  And we also 
suggest we add other entities.  We have--  Under the law right now, we have 
some outs for government, for school systems, and so on.  And we need to 
place them into the responsibility of being required to recycle electronic 
waste as well. 
 
So that’s why the biggest concern is the requirement that 
manufacturers take back an unlimited amount of materials, and that there 
be proper compensation to the recycling industry to do so. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay John, let me ask you and Jim to step 
back.  We have a full complement now; we’re going to take the roll, and 
we’re going to--  Some people came solely for an Open Space discussion, so 
we’re going to take care of that next. 
 
MR. PURVES:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Ms. Horowitz, if you would take the role, 
please? 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  Senator Smith. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Present. 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR LINDA R. GREENSTEIN (Vice Chair):  Here. 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  Senator Codey. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Here. 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  Senator Thompson. 
 
 
 
10 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Here. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
Our agenda advertised a little Open Space implementation bill 
discussion.  There are two documents that, if this is your topic, you want to 
have:  You want to have a draft bill, which has not been introduced, and 
you want to have an Open Space Implementation Bill Discussion Points 
memo.  That memo is the philosophy behind the bill.   
 
Now, let me preface the bill with the following words, which 
are:  Nobody is going to be happy.  All right?  There are babies all over the 
floor that have been cut in half, all right?  We do think, however, this is at 
least a starting point for discussion.  So if you have the draft bill to look at, 
or the implementation bill discussion, let me give you the philosophy 
behind the bill -- which hasn’t been introduced.  It is our intention to 
introduce it this Thursday; that’s really our last opportunity to do so before 
the break. 
 
MR. DUHON:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And we want to get something rocking 
and rolling.  But if anybody -- any of the stakeholders on Open Space think 
that we’ve absolutely missed the target, everybody has Kevil’s phone 
number. (laughter)  Kevil is the gatekeeper on comments, and we do want 
to hear comments until Thursday, at which point we’re going to take a draft 
-- which might be modified again -- and introduce it so that we get it into 
the hopper and get moving on this project. 
 
And again, for the record, is there anybody here from the DEP? 
(no response)  Gee, it would have been nice to have this discussion and 
some input. 
 
 
 
11 
 
So let’s go through the philosophical orientation, all right?   
 
You may remember, we did a hearing on this; a very extensive 
hearing -- several hours -- not so long ago.  And many, many -- maybe even 
all, close to all -- said that the DEP development funding should stay at the 
same level as before.  And this draft does that.  Before, there was funding in 
the Annual Appropriation Act for the DEP to get 15 percent of the 
environment dedication for Open Space development.  If we assume that 
the environment dedication brings in $100 million, for the purpose of 
illustration -- just to make the numbers easy for the math wizes in the 
room--  And everybody knows that right now we’re projecting $71 million a 
year for four years, and then $121 million after that.  But if you use $100 
million as the number for the purposes of illustration, then DEP generally 
gets about $15 million.  We converted that to 15 percent of the CBT into a 
percentage of the new Open Space dedication.  So that if the environmental 
dedication is $100 million, DEP continues to get $15 million.  If it’s higher 
than it is in the current fiscal year, DEP gets a little more; and if it’s lower, 
DEP gets a little less.   
 
And just putting things in perspective:  I was the prime sponsor 
of the CBT dedication for Open Space development in 2006.  And by the 
way, that went on the ballot, if you remember, all right?  And the crying 
need, we said at that point, was there was no stable source of funding for 
parks improvements, repairs, whatever is needed.  And that’s why we did 
the dedication. 
 
So we knew that State Parks needed funding, and we took care 
of it.  I propose today to keep the funding for the State Parks the same, but 
by doing that, everybody in this room has to be aware of the fact that that 
 
 
 
12 
makes for less Open Space money than we had in 2006, and this funding 
for State Parks means less money for other Open Space purposes.  On the 
other hand, at that hearing everybody said that should be sacrosanct. 
 
So what percentage to use?  Some of you asked that allocations 
be the same as in the 2009 Bond Act, which was the last money we had for 
Open Space.  This would not work, because in the past we’ve had two pots 
of Open Space money: the Bond Acts and the CBT dedication for Open 
Space development.  When you combine these two pots together, you see 
that the DEP was getting a larger share of the Open Space money than 
what was reflected in the 2009 Bond Act.  The conversion is very difficult, 
because the Bond Acts represent multi-year funding, while the CBT 
dedication was an annual amount; but this draft does not (sic) reflect a 
greater DEP share. 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  It does. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’m sorry -- it does reflect a greater DEP 
share. 
 
So lease and conveyance revenue -- another issue that a lot of 
people at the first hearing talked about.  We received many, many cards 
and letters about letting the State Parks keep their lease and conveyance 
revenue.  That was always our intention, and that’s in the bill.  You need to 
understand that the only reason we dedicated the lease and conveyance 
revenue in the Constitution was to ensure that it never went for non-Open 
Space purposes.  So the lease revenue in the Parks will stay in the park; 
other lease revenue may go into a pot. 
 
Stewardship: This draft divides the funding along traditional 
lines -- acquisition and development.  We put stewardship as a component 
 
 
 
13 
of development.  One reason for that is that when I look at the definition of 
development, it looks like stewardship.  I don’t think we have a clear 
distinction right now between the two concepts.  Maybe the best way of 
looking at it is that stewardship is enhanced, really good development.  But 
for now, I’m not comfortable with setting up two distinct categories.  A 
second reason for combining these concepts is that I want maximum 
flexibility.  As we move forward into an Open Space world, with restricted 
dollars and a new stewardship mandate, I think it’s important that we give 
the agencies the flexibility to figure out what stewardship is and how it 
should be funded.  There is substantial money in the bill dedicated to 
stewardship.  Most of the stewardship funding goes to the DEP, but there is 
some earmarked for local governments and nonprofits, and some for 
farmland preservation.   
 
Okay, this is a four-year program; it sets up allocations for the 
next four years.  You may remember we’re talking about $71 million a year, 
then after that it goes to 6 percent, which should get us to $121 million.  So 
we’re talking about the next four years.   
 
In Fiscal Year 2020 there will be an increase in the 
constitutional dedication for Open Space.  And, at that point, we’ll need to 
reassess how the money is allocated.  I fully expect these four years to be a 
period of trial and error; I expect that we’ll figure out how to wisely spend 
these limited sums, which are not all that limited because the constitutional 
dedication is forever.  Can I say that enough?  We’ve been going through 
this bond, and do something; bond, and do something; bond, and do 
something.  This is forever.  So it’s not as much money as everybody would 
 
 
 
14 
like, but it’s forever -- baseline funding for Open Space, farmland, and 
historic.  And that’s what the voters decided they wanted. 
 
If I can mix metaphors just a bit:  With Open Space funding, 
we will be on a diet, but we’ll no longer have these periods of booms and 
busts  -- which we think is the right way to go.   
 
Now, we have attached to that a chart; many of us love charts.  
The first chart you should look at is the second chart that’s attached to  
the--  That first chart is proposed Open Space allocations, assuming 
environmental dedication equals $100 million; and Open Space dedication, 
we know, is $71 million.  So you see what the 2009 Bond Act was; you see 
what the former CBT dedication was; you see the proposed annual 
percentages; you see the proposed distribution annually; and then you see 
the proposed total amounts annually -- which add up to $71 million.  
 
So if this is the final version that gets passed in both houses 
and signed by the Governor, Green Acres will get $45 million a year; Blue 
Acres, $2.8 million; farmland acquisition and development, $20.5 million; 
historic preservation, $2.1 million -- for a total of $71 million.  And again, 
nobody’s happy.  If there is any person in this room who is happy, raise 
your hand. (no response)  Like I said, there’s nobody happy.  But we’re 
living in a different world; we’re on a diet. 
 
If you look at the second chart, which is actually the first in the 
attachment, that’s proposed annual Green Acres funding.  So what we did 
was to take the $45 million in Green Acres and now break it down.  So you 
end up with State acquisitions at close to $10 million; State, basically, Park 
development at $15 million -- which is what the former dedication was that 
the voters approved in 2006; we have assistance to local governments for 
 
 
 
15 
Open Space acquisition; we have nonprofit acquisition at $3.2 million -- for 
a total of $45.4 million. 
 
You know, the only thing we ask from all our friends in the 
room is that you try to be flexible and understand that there are limited 
resources, that this is not easy, and we’re still willing to take any comments 
-- Kevil will take any comments in the next 72 hours on major screw-ups in 
the bill, all right?  But we thought this was the best way to do it.  And we 
put it forward with a clear conscience. 
 
So for all the people who wanted to know at least the first 
attempt of a draft on Open Space implementation, you now have it; and 
you have the philosophical basis for it.   
 
And with that, we’re going to move on to Senator Codey’s bill. 
 
Members, if anybody wants to throw anything out.  I mean, 
you haven’t had a chance to read it, just like the public hasn’t.  But if 
anybody has a comment, we’d love to hear it. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  We had a discussion on this. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
Sam, Linda? (no response) 
 
Okay.  So if you have cards and letters, get them in quick, all 
right? 
 
Let us now move on to Senator Codey’s bill. 
 
Senator Codey’s bill is the response to the devastating impacts 
of Sandy and other storms on our state, plus the new world that we live in.  
We have had, I guess since the 1940s, 1950s, 1960s, land use law.  How far 
does it go back? 
J E F F   T I T T E L:  (off mike) It was 1975 -- was the codifying-- 
 
 
 
16 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It was 1975. 
 
MR. TITTEL:  --was the full codification-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And what New Jersey tries to do, in the 
land use law, is to set up a reasonable procedure for us citizens of New 
Jersey to figure out what future we want.  We now have been faced with 
these catastrophic challenges and, as we said, we live in a new world.  The 
American Planning Association and this terrific group on sustainability in 
New Jersey out of Rutgers -- some of the things they’ve suggested, and 
Senator Codey has taken the challenge, are that we, in our municipal 
planning, should include a vulnerability assessment and a sustainability 
assessment.  Which means that when we make land-use decisions we should 
be taking into account those areas of our towns and cities that have major 
vulnerabilities to storms like Sandy, and adjusting our land-use practices 
and policies accordingly. 
 
Sounds like a great idea, and we’ve already had one hearing on 
this.  We held it because we received comments from the League of 
Municipalities saying, “We like the idea, but we don’t want to be told to do 
it.”  And, of course, the problem with that is that while most municipalities 
will be responsible, not necessarily all municipalities will be responsible.   
 
So Senator Codey and I have talked about this and, right now, 
the intention is to leave the bill as is, subject to some earth-shaking piece of 
testimony.   
 
And we are having a hearing on this bill; this is Senate Bill 
2424.  Stacy McCormack, American Littoral Society, in favor, no need to 
testify; Mike Cerra, League of Municipalities, who I think is our prime 
 
 
 
17 
opponent--  Mike, if you would like to testify, we’d like to hear it -- 
opposed. 
 M I C H A E L   F.   C E R R A:  Good morning, Mr. Chairman and 
members of the Committee.  Michael Cerra, on behalf of the State League 
of Municipalities.   
 
I did testify on this bill in October, so I’ll do my best not to be 
redundant with some of my comments.  There are a few things that I 
believe need to be illustrated here. 
 
But first of all, I do want to express some appreciation to 
Governor Codey and his staff.  Following that meeting, I was asked to 
provide some alternative language -- which we did; I believe that’s in front 
of you today.  And I think it was a productive conversation.  And by those 
amendments and concepts that are before you today, I’m hoping that 
maybe we sowed the seeds for something, going forward. 
 
But I can only testify to what is before us right now.  And the 
League, and the Builders’ Association, and others expressed concerns about 
the lack of definitions and redundancies with existing laws. 
 
But today I wanted to illustrate something, because we 
researched the issue.  And we try not to cry wolf regarding mandates, but 
we do believe that this bill constitutes an unfunded State mandate.  So our 
issue is not with the policy, because most unfunded mandates are good 
policy.  Most unfunded mandates--  Someone came up with a good idea to 
implement a policy, and it was put forward, and there was push-back 
against it in the mid-1990s; it went to the ballot, and it is part of our State 
Constitution.  And our position is that if this is a worthwhile policy to 
advance, and it is the State’s desire for us to do so, that the State should 
 
 
 
18 
either provide the funding or identify the funding source, because it should 
not be left to the property taxpayers. 
 
So again, a lot of good policies.  I don’t like to stand up here 
and argue against making our systems more energy resilient -- sustainability.  
But this is a new requirement; it’s potentially costly.  It is on every 
municipality in the state.  And if it’s worthwhile to pursue, our request is to 
at least identify a recurring funding source so that it doesn’t fall on the 
property tax. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  One quick response to that.  Senator 
Codey, and Senator Greenstein, and members of the Committee have 
talked about another bill with a grant program to municipalities to assist 
those municipalities that want to go forward with this before their 10-year 
time period is up.  Everybody may remember that we adjusted the 
municipal land use law to say that instead of every 6 years, they should do a 
municipal master plan update -- that it goes to 10 years.  So for a lot of 
communities, this is going to be many years from now before they even deal 
with the issue.   
 
But at the end of the day, the changes the first time around 
were changed -- the shall to may.  And the problem with that is, this is no 
longer a situation in New Jersey where this should be an option.  New 
Jersey municipalities need to plan for these disasters because there are more 
of them in our future.  If you don’t believe in global warming, I don’t know 
what it takes.  But we have a major problem.  And I know that that bill is 
under construction; I think the right person is Governor Codey. 
 
Governor. 
 
 
 
19 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  You know, we’ve spoken.  And my 
interaction with some mayors was, those who have the vulnerability, you 
know, talk about the cost; those who do not, it doesn’t seem to bother them 
much -- that’s what I gathered, all right?  And while I didn’t think your ask 
was so bad, it didn’t seem to jibe with a lot of other people’s opinions.  But 
I appreciate you coming forward with what I thought were not outrageous 
requests. 
 
MR. CERRA:  Not so bad -- I’ll take that. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Okay. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And by the way, one of the things that 
we’ll do on your main issue -- which is if State mandates, State pays -- let 
me ask Kevil to put a request in to OLS to have an evaluation of that -- 
whether this is a State mandate, State pay.  We don’t think it is.  You’re 
required right now to do a municipal master plan update every period of 
years, and we have traditionally indicated what the elements of the master 
plan should be.  So I don’t think it’s so unreasonable. 
 
MR. CERRA:  Respectfully, Mr. Chairman, the State 
Constitution provides a number of exceptions to unfunded mandates.   One 
of them is the lessening of the mandate, such as the -- from the 6 to the 10.  
But it has been interpreted that the extension of an existing mandate, by 
definition, is an unfunded mandate.  And that would be the argument that 
we -- one of the arguments that we would make.  And if OLS if going to 
take a look at that, I would respectfully request that there be some 
communication between lead counsel-- 
 
 
 
20 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’ll share the opinion with you.  And 
you’re more than welcome to contact the OLS person who’s doing the 
opinion, all right? 
 
MR. CERRA:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Jeff Tittel, Sierra Club, in favor. 
 
Mr. Tittel. 
 
MR. TITTEL:  And I will try to be brief, but there are a few 
issues I wanted to bring up. 
 
Yes, I remember -- I was just a young hot-shot kid on the 
Planning Board when the MLUL finally came into play in 1975. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Would you still consider yourself a hot-
shot? (laughter) 
 
MR. TITTEL:  Well, I was probably even younger and brasher. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Hard to believe. 
 
MR. TITTEL:  Yes, I know -- and even more opinionated. 
 
I just wanted to say that you don’t need to be a scientist to 
figure out we have a big problem in this state.  And we have zoning and 
master plans that, in many cases, go back decades and really need to be 
updated. 
 
The world has changed.  Nine percent of New Jersey, according 
to Rutgers University -- and this is pre-Sandy -- was vulnerable to sea-level 
rise in storm surges.  That number has grown.  We know we are building 
many times in many of the wrong places.  We need to do things better.  
And a lot of towns are.  And this is where I really disagree with my good 
friend from the League, because we’re on the same side in many issues.  The 
City of Trenton is actually working -- and we’re working with them -- on 
 
 
 
21 
ordinances for resiliency and to deal with hazard planning.  But it’s not in 
the master plan.  And those ordinances will be challenged, and they will lose 
-- after spending tens of thousands of dollars writing ordinances.  A master 
plan is relatively inexpensive; writing ordinances is not.  And I think we 
need to have this legislation, and we need to have it as a mandate because 
we need to do better planning throughout New Jersey.   
 
And there’s not an area of the state that has not been impacted 
by flooding.  You can’t say that this is a coastal issue; Irene flooded areas in 
the middle of nowhere.  And we had that (indiscernible) in South Jersey, 
and you had microbursts that wiped out dams up in Sussex.   Statewide, we 
have been impacted.  There is not--  We’re the only--  There has not been 
one county in this state that has not been declared a disaster area in the last 
five years.  So when you think about it in those terms, we need to do a 
better job, and we need to make sure that planning begins as part of the 
master plan.  And when they do their revision -- their periodic review of the 
master plan, when they rewrite their master plan, it’s not a lot of extra cost.  
And, in fact, some of it -- there could be funding available from existing 
sources like Sustainable New Jersey and the grants they give out, to include 
planning as part of that to help defray some of the costs.  Many of these 
towns, especially in the coastal areas, have to do this anyway in order to 
receive Federal grants to do either buyouts, or to do hardenings, or whatever 
they need.  We’re going to be spending billions of dollars in this state trying 
to make this state more resilient in dealing with the next storm.  So we, 
therefore, better do a better job of planning our communities to be part of 
it, otherwise we’re going to not only be wasting a lot of money, but we’re 
 
 
 
22 
going to be putting a lot of people and property in harm’s way.  So we 
strongly support this legislation. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Tittel. 
 
Mike Pisauro, Stony Brook-Millstone Watershed Association, 
in favor, no need to testify; Jeff Kolakowski, New Jersey Builders 
Association, opposed. 
 
Jeff. 
J E F F   K O L A K O W S K I:  (off mike) Mr. Chairman, we share the 
League of Municipalities’ concerns on this bill.  In the interest of time, I’ll 
hold my testimony, since I submitted testimony against the bill last time.  
And we hope that Senator Codey considers the amendment put forth by 
the League of Municipalities. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Jeff. 
 
AJ Sabath, U.S. Green Building Council, in favor, no need to 
testify.  And that is all of our witnesses. 
 
Any discussion by Committee members? (no response) 
 
All right.  I’d like to move to release Senator Codey’s bill. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I’ll second. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Seconded by Senator Greenstein. 
 
Take a roll call vote, please. 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  On Senate Bill 2424, Senator Thompson. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Yes 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  Governor Codey. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Yes. 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes. 
 
 
 
23 
 
MS. HOROWITZ:  Senator Smith 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes.  The bill is released. 
 
Let me bring up John Purves and Jim Entwistle again on e-
waste; we’re back to e-waste. 
 
And Mr. Purves, did you finish your comments? 
 
MR. PURVES:  I’ve completed.  I think we have some 
representatives from the industry; I think they could really speak to some of 
the details as well.  And I know the counties are going to speak. 
 
I’ll just stop with--  My emphasis here is that we have a desire 
in the state to remove electronic waste from disposal facilities.  I think we 
have a consensus on that, that we do not want these materials in 
incinerators and landfills.  And I think we have to make a decision as to 
how we want to go forward, and who’s responsibility it is to do this.  I think 
we’ve wanted to see the manufacturers responsible for this, as well as what’s 
happening in many other states.  And we just have to decide how best to do 
that, and to make it work. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. PURVES:  I’ll just leave it there. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Mr. Entwistle. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  I do have a question for Mr. Purves. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, sir.  Senator Thompson 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  You indicate that what you would 
like to see is legislation that would require the manufacturers to take back 
all of the collected e-waste that you are recycling, right? 
 
MR. PURVES:  Correct. 
 
 
 
24 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Now, I gather since they don’t want 
to take it all back, they figure they don’t have a use for it all.  Would that 
be a reasonable statement? 
 
MR. PURVES:  I don’t think that’s fair to say.  I think there is 
a use for all this; it’s just the cost-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  But do they view it, as far as they’re 
concerned, useful for them to take it back? 
 
MR. PURVES:  There is a use for this.  It’s just--  The issue is 
just the cost of doing this, and who we place that cost on.  But this material 
is being recycled, has been recycled, it will be recycled.  And it’s a question 
of the cost of doing that, and who bears that burden. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Well, where I’m going with it is, 
okay, if we said you have to take it all back, what are they going to do with 
it?  They have to now find a way to dispose of it, or are they going to be 
able to really utilize it?  I mean, they’re saying, “Hey, we don’t need it, we 
don’t want it, etc.”  That’s what they’re saying at the present time, because 
they won’t take it.  So if we say, “You have to take it,” and we’re saying, 
“Okay, you have to take it, and now you have to find some other way to get 
rid of it--”   
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:   Yes, Senator, I’m going to jump in and 
take it. 
 
MR. PURVES:  Go ahead, go ahead and take it. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  And I want to make sure there’s 
clarification for a take-back, versus a producer responsibility law. 
 
The manufacturers don’t want the material back; they want it 
processed properly.  So there’s an infrastructure-- 
 
 
 
25 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Okay, in fact, you’re using the word 
take-back.  That’s where-- 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  And that’s why I jumped in -- to clarify 
that.  Yes, it’s a producer responsibility law that’s in place in the state. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  So you’re not saying you want them 
to take it back; you’re just wanting them to pay you for more of the 
material.  Is that what you’re saying? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  We would like to be compensated properly 
for the proper disposal of that equipment -- that is correct. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Okay.  So it’s not saying you want 
them to take it back; you just want them to pay for more of the material 
you’re recycling.  Because that seems to be a second issue that you’re 
speaking about there.  Oh, no, the other issue was the price that they’re 
paying for you to do it. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes.  That is one of the issues, Senator; 
yes. 
 
SENATOR 
THOMPSON: 
 
So 
you’re 
saying 
that 
if 
manufacturer A--  You’ve got -- I’ll just pick a number -- 10 tons of material 
you’re recycling for them.  They’re saying, “We’ll only reimburse you for 5 
tons,” or something like that. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  That is part of the problem and the 
challenge that we have with the law; yes, sir. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  And not only are they saying, 
“We’ll only pay you for 5 tons,” what you’re saying, even that 5 tons, 
they’re not paying enough for it. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  That is correct. 
 
 
 
26 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Okay, thank you for the 
clarification. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Good morning. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Good morning, Senator. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I actually want to follow up on 
Senator Thompson’s questions. 
 
When your type of company takes these goods right now, what 
do you do with them?  Maybe I need a larger definition of recycling.  What 
do you do with this material? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes, I’m happy to answer that. 
 
Newtech is a Class D recycling facility in the state.  So I’m 
regulated by the State DEP.  We actually are a processing center, so we are 
actually doing the demanufacturing of that equipment right in our facility.  
Newtech is actually unique in the state, being that we actually separate 
CRT tubes in our facility as well.  So if you can imagine a manufacturing 
facility that is building product, we are actually the opposite side of that.  
We are actually taking that material apart in our facilities. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And then what do you actually do 
with it when you take it apart? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes, that’s a great question.  We utilize a 
network of downstream facilities.  Because I’m not a smelter -- I’m going to 
use that as an example -- someone who melts down metals in my plant, we 
utilize an approved list of downstream vendors that have been approved by 
us -- it could be numerous other organizations -- to process the material.  
One of the challenges that we have is, being that we separate CRT glass--  
 
 
 
27 
So we’re very--  We work under very stringent guidelines as far as the 
processing of that CRT glass. So our CRT glass goes back in to be reused for 
new monitors, or it could be new material.   
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  So these other facilities that you’re 
working with -- these other kinds of companies that you’re getting the 
material to -- do you have to pay to do this?  Is there cost to you? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes; in some cases, yes.  The challenge that 
we have is the infrastructure that we have to have in place because we have 
to collect the material first.  So we become--  There are almost three parts to 
our business: We’re a logistical company first, figuring out how we’re going 
to get that material into our facilities in the most efficient way; then we 
process that material within our facility; and then we have to downstream 
that material. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Get it somewhere-- 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Exactly right.  Process it, and then get it to 
another place.  So there’s an extreme amount of cost involved in doing that 
properly.  And, you know, we’re regulated; we’re regulated by the DEP.  We 
also have national certifications, one called R2, which stands for 
Responsible Recycling -- which is endorsed by the EPA.  I’m ISO certified.  
So there are a lot of costs involved in not only those certifications, but in 
processing material properly. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And then you want to get the 
manufacturers more involved.  At what point in the process would they be 
involved?  Would that be sort of at step 3 -- they would be taking charge of 
the material once you break it down, and then they’d have the cost of that? 
 
 
 
28 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes, it’s a unique--  I’m in a unique   
situation because I represent manufacturers -- that are not only in this 
room, but that I’ve had long-term relationships with.   
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And you want to keep it that way. 
(laughter) 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  So I tend to be Switzerland on some of 
these issues.  But I can bring a very unique perspective to it, and that is that 
we want to work with the manufacturers.  The key thing is this:  The law 
itself has issues -- the law itself has issues.  We want more support, 
obviously, from the manufacturers, but we want some other things, and 
John mentioned those.  We call it the Big 5.  One of them is unlimited 
weights.  So the main fact, Senator, is that we have a wonderful collection 
that works, that’s been in place for years.  We have counties that have 
worked tirelessly to put an infrastructure in place.  We don’t have the 
mechanism to support that infrastructure due to the law that is limiting us 
based upon weight allocations that are built into the law.  There’s a formula 
that’s in place that is not giving us the opportunity to collect an unlimited 
amount of material.  That’s our biggest challenge that we need to overcome.  
I’m turning away business currently, and the manufacturers that I work 
with are supporting me.  I represent Somerset, Union, Mercer, Hunterdon 
County, and Warren County, but I have a neighboring county in Middlesex 
that I can’t support because I don’t have weight.  It just doesn’t make sense. 
 
In addition to that, I’m an approved recycler -- a certified 
recycler in the state of Connecticut, where the Connecticut law has an 
unlimited basis.  So now I’m leaving my home state of New Jersey and 
 
 
 
29 
driving to Connecticut to collect material on an unlimited basis, and process 
the material there.  It just doesn’t make sense, right?   
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Well, is this done in a very--  
What you just described -- is it done very differently in other states?  Is 
each state very different? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  I would say the majority of the states are 
similar, but they’re all having issues.  Connecticut is a different type of 
state, and the program is run very differently.  And I know that my 
manufacturer partners do oppose that type of law.  But from a recycler’s 
standpoint, we want to do what we do best -- and that’s collect and process 
material.  We want to support a law that was put in place; the intent of this 
law is free and convenient collection of material.  Why is there a limit on it?  
There shouldn’t be.  Let us do our job; let us collect the material. 
 
Level the playing field, as far as rules and regulations go, so that 
out-of-state recyclers don’t have an advantage over us.  That doesn’t make 
sense to me. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Why do they have an advantage? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Because they’re not paying the same fees; 
they’re not held to the same guidelines that we are; they just don’t.  There’s 
no outside mechanism to say they pay the same fees in order to operate 
within the state, like we have to pay. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you; thank you very much. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Jim, what would you say is the biggest 
difference between the Connecticut program and the New Jersey program? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  It’s the ability to collect an unlimited 
amount of material, and the-- 
 
 
 
30 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What’s happening with the material we’re 
not collecting? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Pardon; I’m sorry? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What’s happening with the material we’re 
not collecting? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  That’s a question that I think the counties 
will answer for you.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes, it’s stockpiling, Senator; and it’s 
getting stockpiled in the wrong places.  And I know that they’re prepared to 
answer that question. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Jim, is there anything else that you 
wanted to say? 
 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  No, I just wanted to thank you all.  Thank 
you for being open to all the information that I’m continually sending you, 
and the updates, and your openness to consider making a legislative change.  
We need your help. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  One more question. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, sir; Senator. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  You speak of the weight allocations.  
Now, are these weight allocations talking about total weight volume that 
your facility can collect, or are they weight allocations related to different 
manufacturers and so on? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  The second, Senator.   
 
 
 
31 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Each manufacturer has a weight 
allocation that they will support, and that’s where you’re talking about that 
they won’t pay for all that you can get, or something.  Is that correct? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  That is correct.  Yes, the DEP has a 
formula in place that dictates the allocated weight that the manufacturers 
are required to collect within the state. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  And that’s where it comes in, again, 
that they won’t take back everything?  You hit your weight allocation for 
them, and they say, “Okay, I’m not going to pay for any more.”   
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes, sir. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  So in other words, that weight 
allocation formula set by DEP, or something, is what you’re looking to see 
changed in that respect. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes, sir. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  For both of you:  Does the DEP have the 
authority under the existing law to change the weight allocations? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  From what we understand, they do not. 
 
MR. PURVES:  No. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  But we’d like that to be put into place, 
moving forward. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Thank you for your comments.  
Please stick around. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Okay, thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We might have more questions for you.
 
MR. PURVES:  Yes, thank you. 
 
 
 
32 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Let us go to the counties.  John 
Donnadio, Paul McCall, Monica Gismondi or Gismoni? (indicating 
pronunciation) -- from the New Jersey Association of Counties.  Sorry for 
fracturing your name, Monica.  (laughter) 
M O N I C A   G I S M O N D I:  That’s okay.  My maiden name was 
Ramotowski, so Gismondi is a lot easier. (laughter) 
J O H N   G.   D O N N A D I O,   Esq.:  (off mike) I’m just going to 
introduce them, Mr. Chairman, so I’ll stand. 
 
I am John Donnadio, New Jersey Association of Counties.  I 
want to thank you for holding a very important discussion on this 
(indiscernible) the counties today. 
 
I’m happy to have with me Monica Gismondi, who is the 
Recycling and Hazardous Waste Director in Gloucester County; and then 
Paul McCall is the Director of Public Works in Somerset County.  So you 
get a good perspective from two different regions in the state. 
 
So we’re going to start with Paul, and then Monica, and we’ll 
all be here to answer any questions, if we can. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right. 
P A U L    L.   M c C A L L:  All right, good morning. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good morning. 
 
MR. McCALL:  So I just wanted to give you a little background 
on the Somerset County e-waste program.  When it started back five years 
ago, we used to continually pick up e-waste -- actually, we didn’t pick it up, 
it was delivered to our recycling facility.  We have our own recycling facility 
in Somerset County.  The first Saturday drop-off, cars would come and 
 
 
 
33 
drop off their e-waste; we would take it to our vendor.  We probably had 
300 cars that would come in to drop off e-waste the first Saturday of every 
month. 
 
So in 2012, we put out a contract to have a drop-off center for 
all County residents.  So during that time, July 1 to December 31, the 
residents dropped off 600,000 pounds of e-waste.  So that contract is a 
three-year contract; so in 2013, they dropped off 1.2 million pounds of e-
waste; and in 2014, the same -- 1.2 million pounds of e-waste.  At this point 
in time, Somerset County gets paid for their e-waste, so we’re not in the 
predicament that other counties are in. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What do you get paid? 
 
MR. McCALL:  In 2012, we collected $30,000. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thirty thousand dollars? 
 
MR. McCALL:  Thirty thousand dollars; I’m sorry.  In 2013 we 
collected $53,000; and we only have the numbers in from the first half of 
2014, which was another $26,000.  So we’re collecting money on our 
contracts right now. 
 
But as you see with the 1.2 million pounds, our only concern is 
--  As we see from Cape May -- moving up the state -- and I know 
Middlesex, and I think they’re here to speak at some point, don’t have a 
contract.  Our concern is having to try and pay for 1.2 million pounds.  In 
Somerset County, do we have an issue right now?  We do not.  We are 
being paid, but our contract is up in July of this year.  So we’re not in the 
predicament that other counties are.  But we’re just hoping that whatever 
happens with the e-waste, that we don’t end up with 1.2 million pounds of 
e-waste. 
 
 
 
34 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  Now, are you typical in the 
sense that counties charge fees when the e-waste is delivered to the county?  
Or do most of them just accept it at no cost? 
 
MR. McCALL:  No, we do not charge any fees.  Our e-waste is 
dropped off at a drop-off location, which is our vendor. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, so your vendor-- 
 
MR. McCALL:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Your recycler is paying you for what -- 
under the contract, with some value proposition for the poundage that they 
collect. 
 
MR. McCALL:  Yes, exactly.  And our residents can go there 
five days a week and one Saturday a month. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right; so are you getting any advance 
warning from your vendor that the equation is changing? 
 
MR. McCALL:  In August of 2014 we got a letter from the 
vendor requesting economic relief.  It was discussed; we did not grant 
economic relief, so we are still collecting the money for the tonnages that 
are brought there. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But every indication is that that’s going to 
change. 
 
MR. McCALL:  That’s what it seems like; and, like I said, in 
Somerset County it has not. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The contract’s not up yet. 
 
MR. McCALL:  Their contract is not up until July.  So that’s 
our only concern. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay, thank you. 
 
 
 
35 
 
MR. McCALL:  All right, thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Monica, your comments. 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Hello; thank you for allowing me a few 
minutes to speak and just kind of let you know what’s going on down in 
South Jersey. 
 
In e-waste, recycling is nothing new in Gloucester County.  We 
began a program back in 2001; at that time, we had--  We only collected 
computer monitors, towers, and the actual keyboards and items -- materials 
that came with a computer.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Who’s doing the TV sets and the CRTs? 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Well, at the time, we were not collecting.  
People were just putting them out in the trash, back in 2001.  So basically 
we had a container; residents would come in for -- it was a free program.  If 
you had a computer you needed to get rid of you came in, you dropped it 
off at the County landfill during our regular operating hours.  In 2007, we 
added televisions as well as many other components.  We take printers, we 
take VCR players, DVD players -- even the old game boxes that the kids 
play.  We expanded it to that, once again, at no charge to our County 
residents.  Basically, the residents could bring it in during our regular 
operating hours, Monday through Friday, 7:30 to 3:30; it seemed very 
convenient at the time. 
 
There was no charge for the electronics; however, the current 
Act--  On our end, we had to start paying in 2014 for our material. 
Basically, we collected the material; we had an agreement with our 
contractor.  He would come in when our container was full.  We gave him a 
 
 
 
36 
phone call, they came in, they picked it up, and that was a win-win 
situation for everyone. 
 
In Gloucester County, we started paying in 2014, and we’re 
now still paying 2015.   
 
In addition to our County drop-off site, 23 of our 24 
municipalities do have a local drop-off center at their local Public Works 
yard.  Basically the way the program is -- when we knew the law was going 
to be coming into play a few years ago, I really pushed the issue for my 
towns to have their own drop-off program.  Make it a convenient program.  
We sold it, because the way I sold it to my towns is the way it was sold to 
me:  It was supposed to be a free and convenient program; it was going to 
be good PR for our towns, for our residents.  Basically, the townships are 
going to be able to offer a free program for their town -- for their residents, 
basically -- so they had some place to take it; because once the law came 
into play, televisions and computer monitors were no longer allowed to be 
placed in the regular trash. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Residents had to take it someplace.  So 
rather than driving it from South Jersey to North Jersey to one of -- whether 
it be Newtech or any of the northern Jersey facilities, we opted to -- the 
towns--  A lot of the towns opted to have a--  The resident can drop it right 
off at their Public Works center, or they can take it to our County drop-off. 
 
In 2014, Gloucester County alone, just for our site, we were 
charged $1,324.20 just for the material that was picked up, because of the 
issue with the payment of the market -- the way the market’s been going. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Is that for the whole year? 
 
 
 
37 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Well, that was for the end of--  Towards 
the--  That was for the portion of the year; that was for 2014.  In addition 
to that, when I added my 23 towns -- I did a survey of the 23 towns that 
were collecting, those that were being charged; totally, in 2014, Gloucester 
County was out $12,849 for a free and convenient program. 
 
Now, what’s happening is, one of the counties in the State 
opted not to even offer any type of county drop-off site at all -- basically 
letting their residents fend for themselves.  So they had no local town drop-
off, they had no local county drop-off.  They were on their own, whether 
they had to drive it to a Goodwill, or to wherever, and that-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Which county? 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  That was Atlantic County.  They basically--  
Most of the counties in the State opted to have some sort of program; but 
apparently Atlantic County chose, for whatever reason, not to get involved, 
and they had no program.  So now their residents were basically out of luck, 
and they were--  It was starting to turn into a dumping problem.   
 
I do not want to see that happening in Gloucester County.  
Unfortunately, it is happening.  We have pictures from several of our parks 
where the residents just don’t want to be bothered with--  Everyone is used 
to having--  In Gloucester County, we have a curbside program.  Basically, 
you put everything out to the curb and the township or the Public Works 
truck comes by, picks it up on trash day, and it disappears.   Once this law 
came into play, now towns can no longer put their televisions out; the 
residents have to physically do something with it.  We feel it’s still a good 
program for the residents just to simply take it to their Public Works yard 
 
 
 
38 
versus, unfortunately, like in Atlantic County -- the resident has to 
physically take it someplace else. 
 
So we want to continue the program; however, the charges that 
we are being charged -- mainly because the manufacturers are not paying 
back the middle man, so to speak--  So we have to do something with it. 
 
Now, no one included this funding in their budgets because, 
basically, they were sold that it was a free and convenient program; it’s a 
good PR thing.  Now they’re scraping for money, trying to find out how to 
pay for their $200 and $300 bills at a pop -- or whatever they’re being 
charged.  Some are being charged by the pound, some are being charged by 
the pull.  It varies, depending on what their agreement is. 
 
So basically when this all happened, it started out--  I believe it 
started out -- it was deemed as a South Jersey problem because it was in 
Gloucester County, Salem County, Camden.  The southern counties were 
the ones that really started to feel the pinch of the program, having issues 
mainly because we only--  In the northern part of the state there are far 
more facilities up there for the towns and counties to be able to make 
agreements with.  In South Jersey, we basically had the Goodwill Reconnect 
Program and Magnum Computer.  They were the only places -- facilities in 
South Jersey, so we didn’t have that many places.  But basically, all -- 23 of 
my towns either went with Goodwill or went with Magnum.   
 
So everything was going fine, but the main issue that started 
the whole problem was because of the limitation that the manufacturers 
were requiring -- those quotas that the DEP came up with.  Before the 
quotas came into play a few years ago we basically kept stating, “The 
numbers are too low.  What happens when Sony, or Panasonic, or whoever 
 
 
 
39 
the manufacturer was -- what happens if, say, come May of the year, they’ve 
met their quota?  Now, what are we supposed to do from June through 
December?”  “Oh, that’s not going to happen; that’s not going to happen.”  
Well, unfortunately, we were deemed as being Chicken Little, crying that 
the sky was falling; and, unfortunately, the sky fell.   
 
In September of 2013, I believe, that’s when the manufacturers 
reached their quota.  They basically closed up shop and said, “No, I’m done.  
I’m not collecting anything until January 1 of next year.”  The stuff started 
stockpiling -- we started stockpiling stuff, our market started stockpiling it -- 
because no one would take the stuff because they weren’t paying back -- 
they weren’t doing--  They thought their obligation was met according to 
the statistics in the law -- the way the law read.  And, basically, that’s what 
happened.   
 
So January 1, everything opened up again.  They were starting 
to take the stuff but, once again, they met their quota, and then, at that 
point in time, now that they’ve met that quota, they don’t have to stop -- 
they don’t have to continue taking it, the way the law reads currently. 
 
So basically what we said was going to happen, is happening.  
And now we’re stuck with the material.  The residents want to do the right 
thing; they want to recycle it.  They don’t want to see the stuff going in the 
trash.  We understand; we don’t want to put it -- bury it in landfills.  We 
don’t want to put these televisions with the leaded glass into the landfills to 
contaminate everything.  We want to keep the stuff out.  The law--  It’s a 
good law; we just need to tweak it a bit to make it work so everyone works 
out -- everything works out in the end. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
 
40 
 
Any questions from the Senators? 
 
Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thanks. 
 
And again, following up on the earlier questions:  Maybe it was 
answered earlier, but I guess I’m still confused.  The main--  Did something 
--  When you keep talking about the law, did something change in the law in 
the last two or three years, or is this a long-standing problem? 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  No, I believe when the quotas -- the DEP 
came up with their quotas for each manufacturer.  How they came up with 
that number, no one really knows.  We’ve never really been able to figure 
that out. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And the problem for you is that 
when they reach their quota-- 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  They stop collecting. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  --you don’t know what to do with  
-- 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Correct.  And we kept telling them that this 
number is too low, and they kept saying, “No, it’s not; it’s fine, we’ll be 
fine.”  And we kept--  Like I said, there was a number of counties that kept 
saying, “No, we--  There is a lot of stuff out there.  You don’t understand.  
We keep collecting it.”  The week after Christmas, when everybody and 
their mother gets a new television and a new computer system; and in 
September, when the kids are all going off to college and their parents go 
out and buy them all new stuff -- I mean, these kids are getting flat screen 
TVs, so the old stuff is coming to us.  The first week of January-- 
 
 
 
41 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  This issue of the quotas -- is this 
kind of a new thing?  Because it sounded like you didn’t have as many 
problems a few years ago.  Is this-- 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  No, prior to the law, we never had any 
problem.  Basically, whatever we collected was taken from us. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And what year was that? 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Well, 2013 -- when the law was put into 
place; I believe it was 2012, 2013. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF AUDIENCE:  (off mike):  It 
was 2009. 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Yes, but basically the last two years, because 
we saw the quotas--  The quotas were just too low, and the material that 
was coming in--  Because it’s a per-weight type of thing.  So basically these 
large monster TVS -- they’re not the little 9-inch TVs.  These are very 
heavy.  So collecting-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  And also, the world is changing to 
flat screens. 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Correct.  And we’re-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And there are probably like 20 billion old 
CRT tubes out there in New Jersey.  They’re all in the spare room, or the 
basement, or the whatever.   
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Right. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But someday they’re going to start 
coming in, in a flood. 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  Right.  And we still actually, occasionally, 
get the old console, big furniture TV, that’s still embedded -- encased in the 
 
 
 
42 
wooden piece of furniture that I grew up with.  We’re still getting those, 
and that’s all very heavy.  So that weight is all counting for us.  So once 
they meet that weight limit, they don’t have to take it anymore, the way the 
law is currently written.  So that’s--  It may have started as a South Jersey 
thing, but this has festered throughout the entire state.  And I believe 
strongly that it’s not just a Gloucester County issue, it’s not just a South 
Jersey issue, it’s an entire--  It’s an issue that the entire state is starting to 
have a problem with. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  So you’ve suggested, I think, a 
good idea, which is--  See, the question is, do we go to this new model -- 
which is the Connecticut model -- or does our law have to -- the law that we 
have now, currently, have to change with regard to these quotas, etc.?   
 
And Kevil, I’m going to give you more homework.  I’d like you 
to write to the Commissioner, saying that in light of the transcript from this 
hearing -- of course, we’ll have to wait for the transcript -- does the DEP 
want to see any changes to the existing law?  And, hopefully, we’ll get an 
answer. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Because, you know, one might raise 
a question even whether utilizing a weight limit is an appropriate way to 
determine this.  Because--  Well, as you mentioned, an old TV, etc. -- big, 
etc., wood and everything -- a lot of weight-- 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  They’re still coming in. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  But in terms of recycling, there is a 
big difference between recycling that TV and some of these newer, smaller 
electronic gadgets and so on.  I suspect the smaller item might cost a lot 
more to recycle than a great big, bulky old TV. 
 
 
 
43 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  That I’m not sure.  I don’t have the 
information. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, and actually you might be a little 
counterintuitive.  The smaller TVs, the flat screens, may be more valuable 
because of the materials -- the metals that are in it that were not in the old 
ones.  And do the new TVs have the leaded glass screens? 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  That would be something Jim would know, 
I believe. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  (off mike)  No, they don’t. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, see, the old TVs have leaded glass. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  I’m suggesting rather than just 
considering the weight limit, maybe they should reevaluate the whole way 
that they-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Do it. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  --determine what they’re going to 
do. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And listen:  We’re happy to make 
whatever are the right changes to make, to get this program to be successful.   
 
Anything else? 
 
MS. GISMONDI:  No, that’s it.  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  John Holub, from New Jersey 
Retail Merchants Association, who swore on the honor of his family, when 
we did this law the first time, that this would solve all e-waste problems. 
(laughter) 
 
John, New Jersey Retail Merchants Association. 
 
 
 
44 
J O H N   H O L U B:  I’d  like to see that transcript where I swore on 
that. (laughter) 
 
I will be honest with you, Mr. Chairman.  This is the one issue 
that I didn’t think I’d be back, five or six years later, discussing with you. 
 
But obviously this is a huge issue for my members -- one that 
we have been active participants in, and remain to be -- continue to be 
active participants in.  And some of my members offer some of the most 
comprehensive appliance and electronic recycling programs in the country.  
In fact, one of my members, in talking to them just the other day, informed 
me that, nationwide, they’re collecting more than 400 pounds of product 
for recycling every minute that their stores are open.  So my members are 
committed to this issue, and will remain committed to this issue. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Which means they’re making lots of 
money. (laughter) 
 
MR. HOLUB:  I will say just kind of a 30,000-member view on 
this issue, and just kind of give you an idea of some things that we continue 
to support and some things that we would not support.  Obviously, we 
continue to support a program that’s producer responsibility; and it’s 
obviously the preferred approach.  And some members, I think, have 
pointed to some other states that have done it.  I mean, I don’t think any 
state is perfect at the moment, but I will tell you two of the states that my 
members did point to were Minnesota and Wisconsin, as some preferred 
approaches.  
 
 And just so you all know-- I mean, obviously, producer 
responsibility is a program where the manufacturer whose name is on the 
product takes full responsibility for that product; and particularly, the 
 
 
 
45 
discussion that we’re having is at the end of the life.   And I want to make 
sure everyone’s clear that retailers are not trying to shift any responsibility; 
because, in a lot of instances, we do have a private label where we are 
considered the manufacturer.  So retailers are not simply trying to say, 
“Let’s do producer responsibility; let the manufacturers figure it out,” 
because, in fact, we are, in a lot of instances, the manufacturer.  So I just 
want to make that point perfectly clear. 
 
As far as things that we will not support I think remain 
consistent:  We had a lot of discussion several years ago on this -- is the 
Advance Recovery Fee, which we would also like to -- prefer to call the TV 
tax.  And it’s important to note that only one state in the country has 
implemented a TV tax, and that’s California.  And I think you said earlier 
that one of us might have called California off their rocker.  I still stand by 
that comment -- that California is off their rocker and continues to be off 
their rocker. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  How is that program doing? 
 
MR. HOLUB:  What’s that? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  How is their program doing? 
 
MR. HOLUB:  As I said, I don’t think anyone is perfect.  I 
don’t think it’s any better than what’s going on.  From what I understand, 
no program is perfect.  In fact, I can tell you that the biggest difficulty we 
have with the Advance Recovery Fee -- and I think this is very specific to 
retail, and particularly electronic retailers, which is a very, very competitive 
retail category.  And right now -- and this is a kind of a little bit off-topic, 
but I think it’s very relevant -- one of the biggest things that retailers face 
right now is the issue of e-fairness.  And that’s the--  There are these online- 
 
 
 
46 
only retailers that don’t have a physical presence in our state that are 
exploiting the competitive advantage that they have by not being required 
to collect sales tax.  In fact, these companies are actually advertising, “No 
sales tax,” when, in fact, the tax is still owed; it’s just that the responsibility 
is being shifted to the consumer.  But these online-only retailers are 
exploiting this loophole.  And if you were to add, now, a TV tax onto that 
as well, there’s no doubt in my mind that these retailers will also begin to 
exploit, “Well, you don’t have to pay sales tax; and you don’t have to pay 
this TV tax,” because they will not be required to collect it. 
 
So the online-only retailers is a significant issue that cannot be 
dismissed.  And that is, today--  I think our concerns a few years ago, when 
it came to the TV tax, are different as opposed to today where the online e-
fairness issue is huge; one of the biggest issues we face in retail.  And if you 
add a TV tax, that problem is only going to be compounded, because these 
online-only retailers are going to exploit that loophole and will not collect it, 
and use it to their competitive advantage -- to the detriment of retailers 
based here in New Jersey.  So that’s one issue that cannot be avoided; and 
I’d be happy to have more conversations with you, Senator, about that.  But 
that is our number one reason for why we would oppose a TV tax. 
 
Also, if you did have some, I think, conversations about the 
Connecticut model--  And forgive me, I’m not 100 percent up to speed on 
all the--  I was an expert about five years ago on e-waste, and I’m a little 
slow in getting back up to speed on this issue more recently.  But what I do 
understand from Connecticut is that it’s a closed model -- in that the state 
makes all the decisions on who the service providers are, and what the cost 
of the recycling is, and who gets to collect the product.  So it’s a very closed 
 
 
 
47 
system, and the state dictates everything about that.  So that’s one reason 
why we’d be very concerned about that.  In fact, I had one member in 
particular tell me that they would, should you go to a Connecticut model -- 
they will shut off their own recycling programs that they offer now to their 
customers.  Anybody who brings a TV--  And they actually incentivize 
people; they give them a gift card for any old TV that they bring in.  And 
programs like that would be completely shut off if you were to go the 
Connecticut model. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Who was that?   
 
MR. HOLUB:  I prefer not to--  I’d be happy to tell you offline, 
Senator. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. HOLUB:  So with that--  And I think -- I know that  the 
Consumer Electronics Association is here as well, and are much more able 
to speak to, I think, the larger issues involved.  But I would be more than 
happy to answer any questions that you might have. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Any questions for John?  (no 
response) 
 
All right, thank you for coming in. 
 
MR. HOLUB:  Okay; thank you, sir. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Let’s get the--  We have a slip -- John 
Martorano Jr., Thanks for Being Green, LLC.  And he doesn’t indicate in 
favor or opposed; he just says, “no need to testify.”   So John, we’ve noted 
that you’ve come here, and you’re neither in favor or opposed, and you 
don’t want to testify. 
 
 
 
48 
 
Let’s try the Consumer Electronics Association.  We have 
Walter Alcorn.   
 
Mr. Alcorn. 
W A L T E R   L.   A L C O R N:  Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman 
and members of the Committee.   
 
My name is Walter Alcorn; I’m with the Consumer Electronics 
Association.   We represent manufacturers of consumer electronics, as well 
as retailers and others in the industry, including a number of companies 
based in New Jersey.  As a matter of fact, I do want to recognize -- they’re 
not going to all speak, so that’s probably a good thing for your time -- but 
we do have representatives today from several New Jersey-based companies, 
including Samsung, Panasonic, JVC, Sharp, and Barnes and Noble.  So 
we’re basically talking about an industry that provides several thousand jobs 
for New Jersey.  So I would very much strongly encourage you to be careful  
with whatever changes you do to this law, because ultimately it could affect 
jobs directly in New Jersey. 
 
And along those lines, our manufacturers spend, just in New 
Jersey, upwards of $10 million a year supporting electronics recycling.  So 
we have a target that’s set by DEP; it’s approximately 50 million pounds a 
year of old consumer electronics that have to be recycled. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Should the target be bigger?   
 
MR. ALCORN:  No. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Why? 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Well, in fact, you’ve heard people talk about 
the Connecticut system.  Connecticut collects and recycles just over half the 
amount that’s collected and recycled on a per-person basis that New Jersey 
 
 
 
49 
does.  So in effect, the Connecticut model collects less but charges 
manufacturers almost twice the market rate.  And that’s something we have 
real concerns about.  We want to make sure-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But here’s the question.  You said that 
DEP has a target goal of 50 million pounds.   
 
MR. ALCORN:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Forgetting Connecticut. 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’re talking about the amount of e-
waste that’s out there; should it be a bigger number? 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Actually, let me put this in perspective.  
Because I think what’s happening is we’re seeing more of challenges in the 
market.  Basically, what you have is this:  Manufacturers hire some local 
New Jersey recyclers -- Class D recyclers.  Some manufacturers also hire 
national recyclers to comply with the requirements in New Jersey.  Local 
governments, as you’ve heard, go through the process of contracting with 
recyclers as well.  Local governments, traditionally, have hired local 
recyclers.  If both sides--  If the manufacturers and the local governments 
were hiring the same recyclers, we probably wouldn’t be having this hearing 
today.  But you have a big fight going on in the electronics recycling market 
between the larger recyclers that, frankly, have economies of scale and 
operate more efficiently, and legacy recyclers that are struggling.   
 
And what’s made this really much more -- and this has made it 
worse for everybody -- is the CRT market.  You know, we’ve heard things 
really started to fall apart in 2013.  Well, that’s pretty much when the CRT 
market started falling apart.  And so now, even though the law--  Basically 
 
 
 
50 
you have a product that is the most prominent, the most largest percentage 
of the total electronics recycling stream -- is this old cathode tube glass; low-
leaded glass.  And there’s really no demand for it.  So as you’ve heard, 
recyclers have to pay somebody to take it and process it.  But yet we have 
targets that we have to meet to make sure the stuff is processed, even 
though there’s really not demand for it.   
 
So we do-- As an industry, we want to see this process; we want 
to see this work.  But I would just strongly encourage the Committee to be 
careful because--  And I very much appreciate the opportunity to give 
another side to this issue, because there is turbulence in the market; there’s 
absolutely no doubt about that.  And there’s a lot of stress.  But there’s also 
stress on our manufacturers as well, and it’s included in the testimony that I 
gave you.   
 
There are a couple of, I would say, more positive things that I 
would like to end on.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but before you end on it-- 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I want you to answer my question. 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Suppose we have 60 million pounds of e-
waste to dispose of every year -- should the number be higher than 50 
million? 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Well, right now, DEP approves recycling plans 
for manufacturers.  Manufacturers have to have an approved recycling plan.  
And in that plan there are specified the collection locations -- or, at least, 
there should be specified collection locations that are supported by that 
 
 
 
51 
manufacturer.  Okay, now I’ve heard one of the suggestions here is that 
manufacturers should collect everything that’s out there; collect year-round.  
We’re fine with that.  As a matter of fact, we think DEP has the authority 
currently -- and DEP has put some things in place recently, just last year, 
that we think will ensure continuous service to these collectors that are 
shown in manufacturers’ plans.  So I think actually -- I think we’re going to 
see, with DEP’s implementation of this new process, I think we’re actually-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What’s the new--  Tell me about the new 
process.  What’s the new process? 
 
MR. ALCORN:  The new process is this:  DEP is actually now 
scrutinizing, much more, the collection locations that are shown in 
manufacturers’ plans.  And so they’re now holding manufacturers to making 
sure that those collection locations are supported throughout the year.  And 
that’s something we support; we support that. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but the problem wasn’t collection.  
The collection, as I got it, is in pretty good shape, with the exception of 
maybe Atlantic County.  So there’s--  The collection is not the issue.  The 
collection is paying for the recycling of materials.  And, as I understood 
what the issue was that was presented, is that the DEP has set a limit in 
terms of poundage, and the amount to be disposed is higher.   
 
So the question for the Consumer Electronics Association, to 
answer the direct question, is should the number be as high as whatever is 
out there in e-waste for that given year? 
 
MR. ALCORN:  See, we disagree-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Or for the past year -- whatever. 
 
 
 
52 
 
MR. ALCORN:  We disagree that there’s an imbalance between 
the target and the pound amount, and what’s coming in.   
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Why? 
 
MR. ALCORN:  It’s the market-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Why? Why? 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Because you have local recyclers that don’t 
have sufficient manufacturer backing that control the flow.  And yet you 
have national recyclers that have pounds orders in excess of what they’re 
getting.  So it’s basically a standoff in the market.  So that’s why. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Stop for a second.   
 
Mr. Purves, do you have any response to that? 
 
Come on up -- come on up to the microphones so that we can 
get it on the-- 
 
MR. PURVES:  Well, I think we have a little bit of a disconnect 
here, because-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, so we’re trying to find out. 
 
MR. PURVES:  --we’re hearing from the industry that there’s a 
commitment for poundage.  Right now, we have warehouses.  We’re in 
February of 2015; we are only one month into the year, and a lot of my 
clients have no commitments from manufacturers, or from brokers, or from 
their agents -- those responsible for providing -- guaranteeing weight, 
guaranteeing to take this material.  And there’s no commitments, and yet 
the stuff is still being collected, it’s still going in the warehouses; it’s filling 
up warehouses right now with no commitment from manufacturers to those 
recyclers who are the ones collecting it in New Jersey. 
 
 
 
53 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And the commitment should be from the 
manufacturers? 
 
MR. PURVES:  Or their agents.  I mean, they do it, not 
necessarily directly. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  Let me go back. 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Respond to that. 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Yes.  Basically, the local governments are 
hiring recyclers that don’t have manufacturer backing -- or sufficient 
manufacturer backing.  That’s the problem. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes, I hear what’s being said here.  
Most of the people who spoke talked about poundage as the issue.  You’re 
saying that the linkage between a, I guess, local recycling, local government, 
and a manufacturing plant is not there.  So you have all of these local plants 
out there not linked to a manufacturing plant -- which is not directly about 
poundage.  I mean, that’s what I hear Mr. Alcorn saying.  But it does seem 
like I’m hearing two different things. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Two different stories. (laughter) 
 
Yes, sir. 
 
MR. PURVES:  May I-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Hold on one second. 
 
Senator Thompson. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  In fact, I’m kind of confused about 
how this whole thing works, (laughter) as we speak of contracts between 
 
 
 
54 
manufacturers and recyclers, and contracts between recyclers and counties, 
and so on.   
 
Okay -- Samsung is a manufacturer.  Now, a recycler--  I assume 
if they contract with a county, they pick up goods.  I mean, does a recycler 
just go to the county and only pick up Samsung, for example?  Or do they 
pick up all the electronic waste that comes in?  So, I mean-- 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Actually, Samsung-- 
 
MR. PURVES:  Let me address-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’ll give you both a chance; we’ll give you 
both a chance. 
 
MR. PURVES:  Let me address how-- 
 
MR. ALCORN:  We’ll probably say the same thing; go ahead. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Well, let me finish my question 
before you answer; let me finish the question.   
 
In other words, I assume the recycler will have a contract with a 
county, they pick up all the electronic waste that comes.  But if it’s being 
suggested that recyclers need to have a contract with each manufacturer out 
there in order to recycle their waste--  I don’t know how the whole system 
works. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That’s insane. 
 
Mr. Purves, and then Mr. Alcorn. 
 
MR. PURVES:  Well, let’s talk about how the counties--  And it 
may be best for the counties to define exactly how they do it, but they put 
out request for proposals.  They will have this material collected -- or they 
will anticipate having e-waste days or providing an option for their 
municipalities.  They’re going to have material.  So they will go out for 
 
 
 
55 
request for proposals for companies -- and this is, presumably, recycling 
companies -- to come in and give them a commitment to take back -- to 
collect this material, and get it back into the recycling market. 
 
What I’m hearing is that-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  And, of course, what they’re getting 
is all kinds of material from all kinds of manufacturers. 
 
MR. ALCORN:  That’s right. 
 
MR. PURVES:  Absolutely -- a mix of CRTs and other 
electronics; some good material, some material that’s going to be very costly 
to get rid of.   
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Right. 
 
MR. PURVES:  It’s a whole mix of materials.  And recyclers 
have to figure out, “Well, how am I going to bid on that in the future?  I 
may have an allocation for one manufacturer for a certain material; I may 
not.  I’m not exactly sure how to bid on that.”   
 
What I’m hearing is that there are plenty of out-of-state 
recyclers that can handle that, yet these out-of-state recyclers aren’t 
responding to the counties’ needs to recycle the material.  So that’s why 
counties right now are not getting contracts from recyclers to take the 
material back -- to collect the material. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Are you saying some recyclers can 
only get reimbursed from certain manufacturers for some of the material 
they’re collecting?   
 
MR. PURVES:  They have to have an allocation of weight for 
the material that they’ve collected from the various manufacturers and/or 
their agents. 
 
 
 
56 
 
MR. ALCORN:  And just very quickly.  The manufacturers--  I 
don’t know any manufacturer that just tries to collect their own brand in 
New Jersey.  They collect the range of--  It doesn’t matter the brand; it 
comes back.  So it is the broader set of electronics that these manufacturers 
-- like Samsung-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  They’re paying for a certain amount 
of electronics, not necessarily--  Samsung is not just paying for electronics; 
they’re paying for X thousands of pounds of electronics, or something like 
that. 
 
MR. ALCORN:  That’s right; that’s right -- of the covered 
products.  Covered electronics. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Okay.  So therefore, the total 
number of pounds that each manufacturer has is this much.  They may 
contract with only one agency to get the whole allotment, or they may 
spread it around a number of recyclers. 
 
MR. ALCORN:  That’s right.  And Mr. Chairman, just one 
more quick, positive point. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Please, sure. 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Which is, this really -- and I think we’re seeing 
this in other states -- the collapse of the CRT market has really brought this 
to the fore.  This is what’s creating, I think, a lot of the stress.  And the 
good news is, we are seeing peak flows of CRTs, probably, in 2015.  So I 
think we’re going to see reductions; maybe not significant reductions, but 
over the next 5 to 10 years this is going to become much less of a problem.  
We’ve already seen reductions in Washington state and in California, where 
they’ve had programs that have been going a little bit longer.  So we think, 
 
 
 
57 
actually, this is probably the worst of all the times for CRTs.  And frankly, 
that’s something I think we can all agree on.  We’ll be glad when it’s over. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Thank you for your comments. 
 
MR. ALCORN:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  David Thompson, Panasonic. 
 
Mr. Thompson. 
D A V I D   A.   T H O M P S O N:  Chairman Smith and members of the 
Committee, thank you for the opportunity to be here and testify from the 
perspective of an electronic product manufacturer. 
 
We are headquartered in New Jersey; we have our North 
American headquarters in Newark, and we employ well over 800 people at 
our Newark and our Harrison, New Jersey, locations. 
 
We collect and recycle electronic products on a nationwide 
basis; and last year we collected approximately 39.6 million pounds across 
the country.  In the State of New Jersey, we collected 3.94 million pounds.  
That was the target that the DEP assigned us for 2014.  Our New Jersey 
target for 2015 is 4.4 million pounds. 
 
So I would like to say that, in my view, my understanding, the 
DEP does have the ability to adjust the targets upward; they did adjust 
them upwards, I believe about 10 percent.  My target went up--  The targets 
are set based on your sales -- the weight of the product you sell.  So despite 
my sales going down, my target actually went up.  So DEP has taken at 
least one step to try to adjust -- address, I guess, the problems that we’re 
finding in New Jersey, by raising targets.  That’s my understanding. 
 
We have a deep commitment to responsible recycling.  We 
participate in an EPA program, whereby we’ve committed that we will only 
 
 
 
58 
use third-party certified recyclers.  So if a recycler isn’t third-party certified, 
we are not going to use them. 
 
We also have a commitment to increase the recycled content of 
the products that we make.  Our goal for 2018 -- our 100 year anniversary   
-- is 16 percent post-consumer recycled content in our product lineup.  As 
of 2014, we’re ahead of that goal; we have a 17 percent achievement of 
post-consumer recycled content.  I will tell you, we’ve been trying to buy 
plastic in the United States, and are having a very difficult time getting it. 
 
So I would say that it’s not a case where we don’t want these 
materials back; some of them we do. 
 
So regarding New Jersey, we have looked at this problem over 
time of collecting recycling e-waste, and starting in 2007 we thought that 
the best way to address it was through some sort of collaborative 
manufactured partnership.  So we worked with Sharp and Toshiba.  Both of 
them were New Jersey companies; I think Toshiba no longer is.  And we 
formed an organization called the Electronic Manufacturers Recycling 
Management Company -- or MRM, for short -- in 2007.  And we’ve 
brought about 35 companies together, and they participate in a 
collaborative e-waste collection program; depending on the state, the 
numbers vary.  I also serve as President of MRM, just for the record. 
 
In New Jersey, we represent 17 separate manufacturers in our 
state collection program.  We contract for 148 collection sites around the 
state.  And while we use a number of recyclers, some of them national, we 
also support four New Jersey-based recyclers: Covanta, LogTech, Newtech, 
and Thanks for Being Green.  Based on the information I have, we cover 
100 percent of the collection volume generated by Hunterdon, Mercer, 
 
 
 
59 
Somerset, Union, and Warren counties.  And we also have a direct 
relationship where MRM, on behalf of the 17 companies, has contracted 
directly with Morris County and provides probably 17 or 18 drop-off 
locations in Morris County where we, as a group of manufacturers, have 
responded to an RFP that the County issued. 
 
So in my view--   And one other thing I’d like to say about this:  
We do try to look at our targets, as assigned by the DEP, and then work 
with local governments and other collectors to determine which one of 
those we can support throughout the course of the year, based on our 
allocated volumes.  So we are committed, and we do work to--  If we sign up 
with a municipality -- we support several municipalities -- or a county, we 
are committing to take the volume that they generate, essentially, over the 
course of the year.  So it’s not a case where if everybody comes, and we’ve 
made our target, we say, “Sorry.”   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but when you--  Just to Senator 
Thompson’s point, when you say take, you don’t mean take back the waste?  
You mean pay for the recycling of a certain weight of the material, right? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Yes.  We contract with collectors and 
recyclers-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  --to take those materials and process them 
for us. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  So we think we’re doing exactly what the 
Act intended us to do, and we think we’re doing a good job at it. 
 
 
 
60 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  So let me ask you the question:  
The comments, distilling them down, is that there’s more weight out there 
than the DEP initially set goals for.  So the question is, does Panasonic have 
a problem with a higher weight goal in New Jersey? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Panasonic supported the DEP increasing 
the target this year -- which I understand they did. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but what if it requires that the target 
goes up even higher? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  I would like to wait and see if the target 
that’s set this year actually meets -- actually fits, if that’s the right word,  
the amount of volume that the State is generating.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You mean weight. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Weight, yes.  And, again, my 
understanding is that the DEP did adjust the weight target up per capita by 
about 10 percent.  And I also understand from talking to people -- so it’s all 
hearsay -- that at the end of the year last year, that there was quite a bit of 
bargaining for recycling credits that manufacturers need to report to the 
DEP to satisfy our obligations, and that some manufacturers had trouble 
getting the pounds that they need. 
 
So again, I would like to wait and see if this particular increase   
that the DEP put through this year is going to address this concern. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I appreciate your comments. 
 
Any questions? 
 
Senator Thompson. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Sir, I do have a couple of--  I want to make 
a couple more points, if I could; but please-- 
 
 
 
61 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, I’m sorry.  Go ahead.  I thought you 
were finished. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Oh, okay.  But when we think about e-
waste laws and regulations -- which we’re talking about -- I do want to say 
that we’re committed to work with our stakeholders in New Jersey.  We 
would like to see laws that give manufacturers -- since we’re responsible for 
paying for these materials, or maybe even taking them back and recycling 
them ourselves -- that gives us the maximum flexibility to work with 
recyclers who can do the job for us.  This is an enormous cost burden on us; 
and we need to find recyclers who have the capability to invest in 
technology to reclaim the maximum value of the materials that are 
contained in the products so that we can really develop a sustainable 
approach to recycling. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, the problem with that is that 
everybody would like the perfect recycler, who could recycle everything in 
the world.  The problem with it is that you don’t just get Panasonic waste at 
a county collection site; you get everybody’s waste, all right?  So that’s part 
of the problem. 
 
And then there--  At the end of the day, the manufacturers 
didn’t want to be collectors; you didn’t want us to have this all go back to 
your shops -- at least, that’s what the prior testimony was.  You wanted the 
government to be responsible for collecting this stuff.   The way you would 
get that is, maybe what we should say is, “You collect all of your waste,” or 
allow customers to bring it all back. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Senator Smith, what I meant by that is 
recyclers can invest in shredding technology. 
 
 
 
62 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Not one New Jersey recycler has a 
shredder that’s worth a damn -- excuse me.  So if recyclers do invest in 
shredding technology, they can reclaim more of the value of the materials in 
the products: the copper, the gold, the steel, the plastic -- whatever it may 
be -- and they can sell that at a higher price into the marketplace, which 
means a lower cost for us who are footing the bill -- paying the 
manufacturer tax, if you will -- to collect and recycle these products.  That’s 
what I meant. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
Senator Thompson, you had a question. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  As this goes along, I keep getting a 
little clearer picture of how this whole process works.   
 
So as I understand it, again, the State sets for each 
manufacturer an amount of recycled materials that they have to fund.  
Then it leaves it to each manufacturer to contract with one or more 
recyclers to recycle that quantity of material. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No, actually, that’s not true.  It’s the 
counties that are collecting, and they contract with the recyclers. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  What’s that? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  We both-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  They-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON: No, no. no.  With the credits they 
have, they have to fund recycling X tons, or thousands of pounds, or so on, 
right? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, that’s true. 
 
 
 
63 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Correct.   
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  And then you are going to select 
recyclers out there-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No, it’s the county that selects-- 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Well, let me ask my question, and 
you can change it. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No, no; okay.  I’m just trying to 
straighten you out.  But it’s okay. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Go ahead. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  My understanding is that, okay, 
you have a certain allotment you have to pay for it to be recycled.  So you 
contract with certain recyclers out there who are going to be responsible for 
making that collection.  Is that correct? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Yes.  We--  There is no easy, simple--  
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  They then are under contract to the 
county. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  There is no easy, simple answer. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  They, then, are on contract with 
recyclers.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  So in the case of Morris County, my 
organization, MRM, has a contract with Morris County that we entered 
into, and then we arrange, through a contract with a recycler, to come in 
and pick up what Morris County collects.  In the case of-- 
 
 
 
64 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  But you make your decision on 
whether you go into Morris County, or Essex County, or so on, and also 
you are going to work with a recycler to go there and get it.  Is that correct? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  But in some cases, we actually contract 
with recyclers, as you’re saying, Senator Smith, to go out and arrange for 
pounds for us -- recycling credits; so they will go to either Goodwill, or 
county government, or a municipality and make those arrangements. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Where I’m going with my 
questions, Senator, is that, that’s with each manufacturer making these 
arrangements out there.  They’ve got their allocations that they are 
responsible for.  But they’re making their arrangements with different 
recyclers or different counties independently.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  So therefore, reaching out like that, 
you may find some county that no manufacturer is interested in, or some 
recycling company that no company is interested in.  They aren’t 
necessarily having to make bids to them -- the recyclers are not -- or to the 
counties, or so on.  It might be better if the State assign the responsibility 
for paying to them what the State contracted out there with recyclers and 
so on -- spread it down -- because you may have some recyclers out there 
that say that they can’t get any manufacturers willing to give them a 
contract.  So they’re saying, “Oh, they’re not buying enough,” while 
somebody else may have these contracts and may not be totally fulfilling 
their contracts -- with every manufacturer out there trying to determine 
where they’re going to put their allocations, who’s going to collect it, what 
 
 
 
65 
counties they’re going to cover, and so on.  Maybe the DEP or the State 
needs to have more oversight on where these allocations are going from the 
manufacturers (indiscernible). 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Senator, could I make a couple more 
points? 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  So you pay a recycler to pick up any 
company’s-- 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Okay. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  We’re not trying to distinguish among 
brands; it isn’t worth it. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Right.  You could care less, as long as 
your quota is reached, correct? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Okay.  And what do the other companies 
do?  Same thing? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  I think--  I understand that they do the 
same thing.  We just do it in an organized fashion for a group of 17 
companies. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Yes, but why wouldn’t you all get 
together and form a co-op? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Because I believe the answer would be that 
we think that collectively, in our infinite wisdom, that the marketplace is 
going to offer a more competitive approach if we have competition. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  The State should take bids. 
 
 
 
66 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  So I would also like to say that one thing 
that could be done, or should be done, is the State should maintain a level 
playing field among manufacturers.  And that could be done if the DEP 
would or was given the resources they need to make sure that the 
manufacturer programs that they receive -- each manufacturer or group of 
manufacturers submits a plan -- has a number of collection locations that is 
commensurate with their target, and that the manufacturers that submit 
these plans must support those collection locations throughout the course 
of the year. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  You know, like sub it out to somebody 
else.  You’re not doing the collecting yourself. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Honestly, if I had a co-op, I would do the 
collection myself -- if I had a co-op; but I don’t in the sense that you mean. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes, thanks. 
 
What I’m hearing is that your group of 17 companies is doing 
this in a very organized way.  But it may be that a lot of other smaller ones 
may not be.  And I think, here, the State -- the DEP -- really has to be the 
organizing factor; I think you just presented it.  It has to really be done that 
way because, otherwise, my impression is that there’s a lot of 
disorganization out there.  I’m not sure I’m right, but that’s what I’m 
hearing today. 
 
Yours sounds pretty organized.  But it sounds like some of the 
others are not -- the smaller ones are not really taking the same approach.  
So I feel like the State has to take an active role in this one. 
 
 
 
67 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  I think that’s what I just--  I agree. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:   And I think it is what you just 
said. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  So the other points I would like to make is 
that, please, as you consider solutions, do not put us in a situation where 
the State sets prices.  We end up paying almost double in the states that 
have done that, and that cost, to the extent I can stay in business, will be 
passed on to consumers. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Do you believe that’s what the 
Connecticut model does? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And when you say they set prices -- how 
do they set prices? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  They choose recyclers that can collect and 
recycle in their state, and they set the price. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  They set the price of a pound of 
whatever? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Yes, a pound of TVs in Connecticut is 38 
cents, I believe, on average -- or roughly. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  (off mike) That’s not accurate. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  What is it, please? 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  That’s not accurate. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right-- 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  They don’t set prices. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, we’ll give you a chance-- 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  They set the price, and that is accurate. 
 
 
 
68 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  I disagree. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Listen, we’re not on Saturday Night Live; 
this is not Jane Curtain. (laughter) So--  And we’ll give you a chance for a 
response to that. 
 
Go ahead. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  I know what I pay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  And it’s exactly what the state sets the 
price at. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  Any other comments, sir? 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Please--  No, that will do it for me, and I 
really thank you for the opportunity to be here. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Absolutely. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  And we would look forward to trying to 
work with you and the State to make sure that this program works. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We appreciate that. 
 
MR. THOMPSON:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  And only while it’s fresh in our 
mind--  Jim, if you would come up; and you wanted to have a quick 
rejoinder -- the emphasis on quick. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes, my name, just for the record, is Jim 
Entwistle.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Jim. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  The group that was just up here is the 
group that I represent in the State.  And they do a very good job working 
with us.  I have a long-standing relationship with them. 
 
 
 
69 
 
As far as Connecticut goes, Connecticut--  The state does not 
set the pricing.  The recyclers submit pricing, they have oversight on the 
pricing, and there is a cap in the law as to how much they can charge.  My 
current rate to recycle TVs is not 38 cents; my current rate is 29 cents. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  In Connecticut. 
 
MR. ENTWISTLE:  Yes, sir.  That includes the collection, the 
sorting, the processing.  The Connecticut law is a little bit different because 
I do--  In that law, we are required to sort the material by manufacturer.  
With TVs, in relation to Mr. Thompson’s comment--  In regard to TVs, it’s 
based on market share.  So if you have a decreasing market share in a state, 
you would actually be paying less over time, if that was the case, if your 
sales were decreasing.  So the market share model, in my opinion, is a 
strong model.  And the rate that we’re getting paid up there is for the full 
disposal and processing, right down to the glass. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
Carole, from Middlesex County and ANJR -- the Association of 
New Jersey Recyclers.  
 
Carole, I apologize.  I knew once how to pronounce your last 
name, but I’ve lost it. (laughter) 
C A R O L E   T O L M A C H E W I C H:  Good morning.  I’m Carole 
Tolmachewich, from Middlesex County’s Division of Solid Waste 
Management.  Thank you all for the opportunity to speak on this very 
important topic. 
 
Middlesex County had a long-running, 14-year program -- a 
successful electronic collection program that resulted in the collection of 2.8 
million pounds of covered electronic devices in 2014.   
 
 
 
70 
 
The recycler that we had partnered with over the last four years 
is no longer working in our County.  After several bid attempts -- and I will 
note that we sent our bid specifications to both in-state, local and out-of-
state electronics recyclers that we knew were doing business in New Jersey --  
we received no awardable bid.  
 
The prices that we received to provide the services, for what is 
supposed to be a free program, ranged from $420,000 to $1 million per 
year.  As a result, Middlesex County had no choice but to suspend our 
collection program as of December 31.  So right now, in Middlesex County, 
there is no County collection program. 
 
Our program consisted of not only a County drop-off which 
operated twice per month, but also we had partnerships with all 25 of our 
towns -- 24 of which had local drop-offs.  That program is ended.   As a 
result, municipalities are faced with the choice of either trying to find a 
vendor on their own or ending their program.   If a town doesn’t have a 
program, there are concerns with illegal dumping, stockpiles of covered 
electronic devices left at drop-off centers, and our big concern of covered 
electronic devices in our landfill. 
 
We do have a few municipalities that elected to continue their 
program at taxpayer expense -- because every municipality that has elected 
to continue their program is paying.  One such town has already spent 
$3,000 solely for electronics collected in January; that’s one town. 
 
The County currently directs our residents to the NJDEP 
website and the NJDEP telephone number to get information as to where 
they should recycle their covered electronics.  Unfortunately, our residents 
are not being provided with a free option for recycling their large 
 
 
 
71 
televisions.  Of the 14 drop-off locations that are listed for covered 
electronics in Middlesex County, only 3 maintain that they accept 
televisions.  One of those locations routinely turns away residents if their 
televisions don’t work.  The other two locations have size restrictions, and 
those size restrictions are -- if you have a tube television that is larger than 
32 inches they will not accept it at no charge.  If you have a projection 
television they will not accept it at no charge.  If you have a console 
television they will not accept it at no charge.  So if you are a resident in 
Middlesex County right now with a 52-inch tube television, you have no 
free option to recycle your television. 
 
We have reached out to the NJDEP to ask for their assistance 
with this problem; we have not heard anything back. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  When did you request assistance? 
 
MS. TOLMACHEWICH:  Oh, our Freeholder, Freeholder 
Polos, wrote a letter about three weeks ago to the DEP on that specific 
problem. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MS. TOLMACHEWICH:  And that was directed to the DEP 
Commissioner. 
 
So from Middlesex County’s perspective, the Act is not working 
as originally intended.  And, therefore, we are recommending that it be 
amended so it is similar to that which exists in the state of Connecticut.  
And Middlesex County is willing to assist in making the necessary 
amendments to the State law so that we will return to a free and convenient 
drop-off program for our residents. 
 
 
 
72 
 
And I’m also speaking as a Board member of the Association of 
New Jersey Recyclers, which is a nonprofit organization that represents 
both the public and private sector, local and government officials, the 
recycling industry, and the business community.  And ANJR has been 
hearing from our members that the biggest problem that they are currently 
facing is the electronics recycling issue.   
 
The original bill gave many hope that all the positive work they 
had done to remove electronics safely from the waste stream would now be 
easier and costs would be covered.  Many municipal and county elected 
officials are increasingly being confronted with no zero-cost bids, only bids 
with varied level of costs, and thus face the tough choice to either spend 
large sums of money to continue their electronics programs or to end them.  
Either way, they face taxpayer concern and anger.  And ANJR cannot 
understand how the manufacturers are able to claim that they have met 
their collection quotas each year and, in fact, in some cases are claiming 
that they have met their set quotas before the year has ended, when so 
many communities are not being serviced by the free program.  And ANJR 
has and is continuing to indicate their support for a legislative change to the 
program as well. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Carole, why do you think the Connecticut 
law would--  How, specifically, would it improve the situation? 
 
MS. TOLMACHEWICH:  Well, the Connecticut law would 
require recyclers to work with municipalities and counties.  And in New 
Jersey, we are the ones that have the programs; we are the ones that the 
residents depend upon for their drop-off needs.  So if we go to a 
Connecticut system, I will have a choice of a number of approved 
 
 
 
73 
electronics recyclers to go with to make sure that our electronics are being 
recycled.  There will be no maximum quota; they will have to take back 
whatever materials that we generate. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  Mr. Chairman. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, sir.  Senator Thompson. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  You indicate your program ended 
December 31. 
 
MS. TOLMACHEWICH:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  You said you did receive some bids, 
but they would have run hundreds of thousands -- up to $1 million or so.  
What was the difference this year versus last year -- what caused the 
change, and so on, as far as you see? 
 
MS. TOLMACHEWICH:  We had a recycler who was based in 
Edison, and they moved out of the state so they were no longer continuing 
our program. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  What were you paying them? 
 
MS. TOLMACHEWICH:  We were not paying. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  They were doing it at no cost? 
 
MS. TOLMACHEWICH:  We were actually receiving a subsidy 
back. 
 
SENATOR THOMPSON:  So in other words, you were going 
from a no cost to up to $1.4 million, I think you said.  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any other questions for Carole? (no 
response) 
 
 
 
74 
 
Carole is our last witness.  Obviously, this is an issue that is of 
concern.  We hope to get the transcript ASAP; we’re going to send it to the 
Commissioner and ask if he has any suggestions.  And, if not, then we’re 
going to take a look at legislation to solve what is clearly a bigger problem 
than anybody ever anticipated. 
 
Thank you for your comments.  That concludes our hearing, 
and concludes this day’s meeting of the most interesting Committee in the 
Legislature. (laughter)  
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
