 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
The following bill(s) will be considered: 
 
S-2776, SCR-135, SCR-136, SCR-137 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 10 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
September 27, 2018 
10:00 a.m. 
 
 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice Chair 
Senator Richard J. Codey 
Senator Christopher ‘Kip’ Bateman 
Senator Steven V. Oroho 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Matthew H. Peterson                                          Kate Millsaps Wolfinger       Rebecca Panitch  
 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
 
    Senate Majority 
 
   Senate Republican 
Committee Aide  
 
 
 
    Committee Aide 
 
   Committee Aide 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
 
Jeff Tittel 
Executive Director 
Sierra Club of New Jersey 
5 
 
William S. Kibler 
Director of Policy 
Raritan Headwaters Association 
6 
 
Phil Gregory 
State House Reporter 
WHYY and WBGO TV/Radio 
8 
 
Doug O’Malley 
Director 
Environment New Jersey 
14 
 
 
Keith R. Cooper, Ph.D. 
Deputy Director 
Government Relations 
Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences Institute, and 
Professor of Toxicology 
Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology 
School of Environmental and Biological Sciences 
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, and 
Chair 
New Jersey Drinking Water Quality Institute 
22 
 
Ed Wengryn 
Research Associate 
New Jersey Farm Bureau 
31 
 
Noemi de la Puente 
Executive Director 
The New Jersey Environmental Lobby 
33 
 
Dennis Hart 
Executive Director 
Chemical Council of New Jersey 
37 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Page 
Margaret Gorman 
Senior Director 
Northeast Region 
American Chemistry Council 
40 
 
Douglas Kellogg 
New Jersey State Projects Director 
Americans for Tax Reform 
43 
 
Jennifer M. Coffey 
Executive Director 
Association of New Jersey Environmental Commissions (ANJEC) 
46 
 
Mark Daniels 
Senior Vice President 
Sustainability and Environmental Policy 
Novolex 
50 
 
Frank Brill 
Representing 
Association of New Jersey Recyclers 
54 
 
Mary Ellen Peppard 
Assistant Vice President 
Government Affairs 
New Jersey Food Council 
56 
 
Peter Blair, Esq. 
Policy Attorney 
Clean Ocean Action 
60 
 
Matthew Seaholm 
Executive Director 
American Progressive Bag Alliance (ABPA) 
62 
 
Doug O’Malley 
Executive Director 
Environment New Jersey 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Page 
Paul Poe 
Manager 
Government Affairs and the Environment 
Dart Container Corporation 
67 
 
Maggie Leppert 
Private Citizen 
74 
 
Henry Gajda 
Public Policy Associate 
New Jersey League of Conservation Voters 
78 
 
Michael A. Egenton 
Executive Vice President 
Government Relations 
New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce 
80 
 
 
Dale Florio 
Governmental Affairs 
New Jersey Restaurant and Hospitality Association 
86 
 
Brian Hackett 
New Jersey State Director 
Humane Society of the United States 
88 
 
Christine Buteas 
Chief 
Government Affairs Officer 
New Jersey Business Industry Association (NJBIA) 
91 
 
 
Sal Risalvato 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Gasoline-Convenience-Automotive Association 
93 
 
Maura Toomey 
Community Organizer, and 
ReThink Disposable Coordinator 
Clean Water Action 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
 
 
Page 
Anthony Perry 
Director 
Government Affairs 
Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey 
99 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Keith Cooper, Ph.D. 
1x 
 
Tables, Charts, and Graphs 
submitted by 
Noemi de la Puente 
3x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Dennis Hart 
10x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Margaret Gorman 
13x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Douglas Kellogg 
18x 
 
 
Testimony, plus attachments 
submitted by 
Paul Poe 
20x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Brian Hackett 
28x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Sal Risalvato 
29x 
 
pnf: 1-106 
 
 
 
1 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  All right; so everybody 
should take their seat, if there is a seat.  If there isn’t a seat, I’d like the 
record noted that we were standing room only again; again.  (laughter) 
 
And we should start with the opening line:  Welcome to the-- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED 
MEMBERS OF 
AUDIENCE:  
--most 
interesting Committee in the Legislature. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So if we could take a roll, please. 
 
MR. PETERSON (Committee Aide):  Senator Oroho is present, 
just not in the room. 
 
Senator Bateman. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Here. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Governor Codey. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Here. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR LINDA R. GREENSTEIN (Vice Chair):  Here. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Chairman Smith. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Present. 
 
So you may have noticed that Kevil has metaphored into a 
different person. (laughter)  And this is Kate Millsaps; and it is hyphenated.  
The second half of the name is-- 
 
MS. MILLSAPS WOLFINGER (Committee Aide):  Wolfinger. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Wolfinger? 
 
MS. MILLSAPS WOLFINGER:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
And Kate is--  This Committee, because it is so interesting, has 
co-staffers.  So we have Kevil and we have Kate.  Kate did her -- she made 
 
 
 
2 
her bones, is the phrase that we use in the mafia. (laughter)  She made her 
bones in Sierra Club.  And I am also finding her to be a tremendous 
resource on plastics issues.  She really has it down pat. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  But do you drive a Prius? (laughter) 
 
MS. MILLSAPS WOLFINGER:  No, I don’t. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:   I get that question-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Then she can’t be a real environmentalist. 
(laughter)  
 
So in any case, I think what we’re going to do is do the 
resolutions first, all right? 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  There you go.  That’s a wise man. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And then we’ll do the main event last. 
 
So let’s start with SCR-135, which is Senator Greenstein’s 
resolution, which “Urges cooperative approach among all levels of 
government to provide funding and other resources to clean up plastic 
pollution.” 
 
 When we were at our hearing in Toms River--  And we now 
have the transcript of it; remember the August 23 hearing, which was -- I 
thought an absolute barn-burner, in terms of the information that we 
received, especially from the various academics from Princeton University 
and Rutgers University about the seriousness of the problem.  Some of the 
information we received, for example, was that global annual plastics 
production increased from 2 million tons in 1950, to 381 million tons in 
2015; that Americans purchased 50 billion water bottles a year, with an 
average of 13 bottles per month per person; and in addition, 100 billion 
plastic bags and 25 billion Styrofoam plastic coffee cups are thrown away 
 
 
 
3 
by Americans each year, and that averages to 307 plastic bags and 77 cups 
per person, per year.  Wow. 
 
And unfortunately, in New Jersey, our post-consumer plastics 
recycling rate is between 6 and 9 percent. 
 
The other stunning part of the hearing--  And everybody--  You 
know, these are available; publicly available.  You should get yourself a 
copy, especially if you weren’t at the hearing.  What the academics pointed 
out is this is not -- and I won’t even use the word just -- but it is a huge 
environmental problem in terms of -- we have two continents of plastic,  
one in the Atlantic Ocean and one in the Pacific Ocean.  It’s already there, 
and it’s a nightmare. 
 
And what the academics pointed out -- that was the really 
shocking part of their testimony -- was that these plastics are breaking down 
-- when they are in the environment, breaking down into smaller, and 
smaller, and smaller, and smaller, and smaller, and smaller pieces.  And they 
are now being -- the plastic pieces are being found in not only ocean fish, 
where you’re seeing these two islands of plastic; but they’re also being seen 
in freshwater fish.  And they had studies of both the Passaic River and the 
Raritan River showing the fish bioaccumulating the plastics; and then on 
these plastic particles -- adhering to the particle were over 300 organic 
chemicals.  And these organic chemicals may or may not be carcinogenic, 
but I can tell you they are not real good for human beings. 
 
So the one academic said this problem may be as big as the 
global warming problem on the planet.  Serious stuff.   
 
So we have our first Resolution by Senator Greenstein.  And 
this is an effort to try and get governments to work together.  And the one 
 
 
 
4 
that  -- the big point--  And this was out in California; you may have seen 
the news stories or the news articles about this 23-year-old entrepreneur, 
who has received entrepreneurial funding, who now has a boat with a -- 
what’s the right word? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF AUDIENCE:  Trough. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  To catch plastics.  And he’s going out to 
the Pacific Ocean in this device, and circles the plastic, concentrates it; and 
then they’re taking it back to the United States to process it and hopefully 
recycle it. 
 
And I think the point of Senator Greenstein’s Resolution is, we 
really need to be doing more of that, and governments need to be working 
together to do it. 
 
And Senator, I should give you a shot.  Is there anything you’d 
like to say before we start taking testimony? 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Just that we really have two kinds 
of bills on the agenda today; and this one would urge a cooperative 
approach on the part of governments.  And right now, I’m just joined by 
Senator Bateman as a co-prime on this Bill, which is great. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Great. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And if that does turn out to be the 
approach we’re taking, we’ll do everything in our power to encourage and 
push governments -- certainly ours, for starters -- to make sure that we are 
doing everything that we can in this regard. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Great. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you.  
 
 
 
 
5 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So three witnesses indicated they are in 
favor and they have no need to testify.  We have Brain Hackett of the 
Humane Society of the United States; we have Lena Smith from Food and 
Water Watch, in favor, no need to testify; and Henry Gajda, from the New 
Jersey League of Conservation Voters, in favor, no need to testify. 
 
Oh, I’m sorry; one more.  Doug O’Malley from Environment 
New Jersey, in favor, no need to testify. 
 
So we have two witnesses who would like to testify. 
 
First, Jeff Tittel from the Sierra Club. 
 
Jeff. 
J E F F   T I T T E L:  Thank you. 
 
Jeff Tittel, New Jersey Sierra Club. 
 
We’ve been working on this issue across the country, as many 
other groups are.  And I think that this Resolution is important, because we 
need to start getting government to focus.  And it’s not just -- you know, it’s 
not just the State government, but the Federal government, county and 
local government, because of how we deal with solid waste in this state. 
 
Banning plastics and moving away from plastics is important, 
but we have to clean up the mess that’s been made.  You know, in 
Baltimore Inner Harbor they have two skimmers, working full time, just to 
pick up the plastics.   
 
So as we move and get rid of plastics in the environment, we 
need to clean up that mess.  Because as we know, plastics are not just the 
mess on our beach or in our waterways; it’s also becoming an important 
health problem to us. 
 
 
 
6 
 
So I think we need to work to get all different levels of 
government to work together.  
 
So thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Jeff. 
 
And Bill Kibler; and Bill is from the Raritan Headwaters 
Association.  
 
Bill. 
W I L L I A M   S.  K I B L ER:  Good morning, Senator; thank you. 
 
I want to start by thanking Senator Greenstein and Senator 
Bateman for sponsoring this Bill. 
 
I just want to take a brief moment and hopefully put some local 
scale to this for the Committee. 
 
At Raritan Headwaters, we’ve had a stream cleanup that’s been 
going on for 27 years; next April will be our 28th annual stream cleanup.  
Senator Bateman has been a very regular participant in our stream cleanup, 
so you can check my facts with him after. 
 
Last year, last April, when we did our 27th stream cleanup in 
my Watershed -- which is 470 square miles in Morris, Hunterdon, and 
Somerset counties; so one little corner of New Jersey -- we had over 1,300 
volunteers turn out for the stream cleanup.  The people of New Jersey take 
this issue very seriously, and they take it very personally.  This is an 
important issue for them; and it’s one they can grasp, both literally and 
figuratively. 
 
Last year, our stream cleanup volunteers pulled more than 14 
tons of trash out of the waters of the headwaters of the Raritan; more than 
 
 
 
7 
14 tons in a 470-square-mile area.  To give you some historical context, 15 
years ago we were pulling about 7 tons of trash out. 
 
One of the differences that we see now, versus 15 years ago, 
with the trash we’re pulling out, is 15 years ago it tended to be big things: 
refrigerators, parts of cars, things like that.  Now the 14 tons of trash that 
we’re pulling out a year is almost -- not entirely, but almost exclusively -- 
consumer trash: plastic bags, plastic bottles, food containers, etc.  Fourteen 
tons in a 470-square mile area 
 
This is a big issue, so I think this Resolution is a great idea.  I 
think a cooperative effort at different levels of government, as well as 
working with the people on the ground about for whom this is a very 
important issue, is great; it’s an excellent start. 
 
I thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Bill. 
 
Any other comments from members? (no response) 
 
Then a motion-- 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  I’ll move the Resolution. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Second. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  A motion to move it; and a second from 
Governor Codey. 
 
We’ll take a roll call on that, please. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  On the motion to release Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 135, Senator Oroho left his vote in the affirmative. 
 
Senator Bateman. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Yes. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Governor Codey. 
 
 
 
8 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Yes. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  And Chairman Smith. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
And the Resolution is released. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Chair. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, sir. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  I just want to say something. 
 
Today is Phil Gregory’s last day here-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  --as a reporter with public radio.  he 
was always a gentleman to all of us-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  --and everybody.   
 
And it was a pleasure dealing with you, Phil.  God love you, and 
God bless you. 
P H I L   G R E G O R Y:  Thank you. (applause) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Governor, I will let you know he 
mentioned that on the way, as I’m walking in.  And I told him that if it 
would be an inducement to keep him reporting, that we would actually 
move the meeting to the location of his preference.  He said it’s not enough 
of an inducement. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  He’s done this for 47 years.  So that 
alone -- he deserves an award for that. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  I can relate to that. (laughter) 
 
 
 
9 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF AUDIENCE:  You still call 
him kid, right? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And let’s hear it for people who promote 
the First Amendment; not a bad thing.  
 
MR. GREGORY:  Thank you, sir. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, the next item of business, let’s take a 
look at -- as long as we’re in a cooperative mood -- let’s go to SCR-137, 
which urges the DEP and EDA to establish a plastics marketplace.  And that 
is by Senator Smith and Senator Sarlo. 
 
The point of that Bill is that -- and this is part of the testimony, 
again, from the Toms River hearing -- is that the country of China will no 
longer accept our plastic bag waste unless it’s perfectly clean.  And we are 
moving more and more towards single-stream recycling; our bags are dirty, 
they’re not accepting them, and they are piling up -- they are literally piling 
up in New Jersey. 
 
And we don’t have our own serious commercial recycling 
program to take whatever plastics are being generated -- hopefully, after our 
Bill it won’t be single-stream bags -- but there are still going to be plenty of 
plastics.  If the last Bill passes, I think we’re taking about 60 to 80 percent 
of the plastics out of the environment; but there are still plenty left.   
 
So you still need a recycling effort; and this is an effort to try 
and get DEP and EDA to establish a marketplace in the State of New 
Jersey. 
 
So again, we have some witnesses.  Bill Kibler, Raritan 
Headwaters, in favor, no need to testify; Doug O’Malley, Environment New 
Jersey, in favor, no need to testify; Henry Gajda, New Jersey League of 
 
 
 
10 
Conservation Voters, in favor, no need to testify; and Jeff Tittel, with a 
need to testify. 
 
Mr. Tittel. 
 
MR. TITTEL:  I just want to say that I think that having the 
Resolution is good, but we really need to get those agencies to act and to 
move forward. 
 
At one time, Rutgers was doing some really groundbreaking 
work.  And they had a -- we gave money for a company called Poly-Wood, 
which was one of the first plastic wood companies.  And we never followed 
up on it. 
 
So, you know, we’ve done it in the past; and we need to not 
just pass resolutions, but we really need to get them to actually work 
together to start coming up with it. 
 
First is to -- as we know in the environment -- reduce, reuse, 
and then recycle.  And we need to, really, get these agencies to do the jobs 
that they did 20 years ago. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
Any comments from members? 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  No, I just have signed on as a co-
whatever -- sponsor and prime on this.  I think you have a co-prime, so I’ll 
probably be a co-sponsor. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Sign me up, too. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Me, too. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Yes, everybody. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
 
 
11 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Me too. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Me too is okay. 
 
So that’s Senate Concurrent 137.  Senator Bateman is a co-
prime, and we’ll make Governor Codey and Senator Greenstein as a co-
sponsors, if we can get them the appropriate slips. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  And I’ll move the Resolution. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Second. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Motion, and a second; motion by Senator 
Bateman, second by Governor Codey. 
 
And let’s take a roll call on release. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  On the motion to release Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 137, Senator Oroho left his vote in the affirmative. 
 
Senator Bateman. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Yes. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Governor Codey. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Yes. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  And Chairman Smith. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
And the Resolution is released. 
 
Let’s go to Senate Concurrent Resolution 136. 
 
And let’s talk to you about what that’s all about. 
 
The title on it is -- it urges the Federal government to take 
action to require manufacturers of single-use plastic products to assume 
responsibility for pollution caused by those products. 
 
 
 
12 
 
And again, back to our testimony, a couple of comments. 
 
What was clear from the testimony is that most plastic 
products currently don’t typically biodegrade, but instead break into smaller 
pieces.  These materials continue to accumulate in the natural environment 
and in the marine environment is single-use plastic products, they breakup 
down, they degrade into smaller and smaller pieces -- referred to as 
microplastics -- which are eaten by fish and other marine life, which can enter 
the human food chain. 
 
So plastic manufacturing in this country is the third-largest 
manufacturing industry in the country.  And the manufacturers of single-
use plastic products enjoy the financial benefits from the sale of these 
products, but they don’t assume any responsibility for the costs associated 
with the afterlife of the products, or the environment damage. 
 
So this is a little like our history with things like tobacco.  
You’re producing a product that has an adverse impact on not just the 
environment but, as we’re finding out from the Rutgers and Princeton 
professors, also on human health.  This is a public health problem, not just  
-- and I hate to use the word just -- and also a significant environmental 
problem. 
 
So here you’re saying to the various governments to take a look 
at this.  You know, maybe we should be asking the plastics manufactures to 
assume some of the financial responsibility associated with cleanup for the 
impact of their products. 
 
It doesn’t file a lawsuit-- 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  It talks about litigation; that’s one of 
my concerns. 
 
 
 
13 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, yes, yes. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  I mean-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, it does talk about litigation, but 
there can’t be a free lunch.  You know, if you’re going to produce a product 
that has that kind of impact, you should be part of the solution, not just 
part of the problem.  So yes, it’s a little-- 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  But Chairman, shouldn’t it-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:   And by the way-- 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  May I ask you a question? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Discussion; yes, Senator. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  But should it be perspective?  I mean, 
can we blame them for individuals who don’t take the environment 
seriously and pollute?  I mean, can we make that correlation, that link, 
because they’re producing something which you can argue has a lot of 
beneficial uses -- plastics.  It’s very damaging to the environment, but it 
does have some beneficial uses.  Can we make that correlation between 
them producing it, and going after them for the pollution? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, number one, this actually doesn’t go 
after them.  It says we should look at it.  But that being said, maybe sending 
that kind of a signal to the plastic industry gets them to start revising the 
nature of the plastics that they’re producing, all right?  So I think it’s a shot 
across the bow; but I think in light of what this is doing to the environment, 
and now human health, I think you have to send the shot across the bow. 
 
Just my prejudiced view of the world. 
 
Any other warm-up comments? (no response) 
 
All right; then let’s hear what people have to say. 
 
 
 
14 
 
Margaret -- is it Gorman?  Margaret Gorman, from the 
American Chemistry Council, opposed, no need to testify; Bill Kibler, 
Raritan Headwaters, in favor, no need to testify; Mike Egenton, New Jersey 
State Chamber of Commerce, opposed, but no need to testify; Chrissy 
Buteas, from NJBIA, opposed, no need to testify; Brian Hackett, Humane 
Society of the United States, in favor, no need to testify; Lena Smith, Food 
and Water Watch, in favor, no need to testify; Henry Gajda, New Jersey 
League of Conservation Voters, in favor, no need to testify; and two 
witnesses. 
 
Doug O’Malley, in favor. 
 
Doug. 
D O U G   O ’ M A L L E Y:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
And welcome, Kate, to the Committee; and then I also wanted 
to thank the Governor and Senator Bateman for their well wishes to Phil.  
He’s spent nine years here with WHYY; but as the Senator said, he spent 
47 years in radio.  I think that’s competing with Gene Dilliard as the Dean 
of Radio here at the State House radio press corps.  He will be missed. 
 
I wanted to start my testimony by thanking the Governor and 
the Chairman for their support of this Bill.  It is just a Resolution; and 
Senator Bateman, you’re correct to say -- what’s the real-world impact here.  
And this is a Resolution that would encourage the Attorney General of the 
United States, if needed, to consider litigation options.  Obviously, we all 
know the Trump Administration and Attorney General Jeff Sessions are not 
going to do that right now.  But this is a Resolution that is sending a 
message; its talking about the full life cycle, the cradle-to-grave, of our 
 
 
 
15 
single-use plastics in this state, and what can we do and what can the 
industry do to reduce it. 
 
And specifically the models, Chairman, that you worked with in 
electric waste recycling, I think have a lot of comparisons here, and  I’d also 
say that the model of the Superfund Tax to ensure that industry is doing 
whatever it can to mitigate environmental impacts. 
 
And I’ll just conclude by saying there are currently 165 million 
particles of plastic in the Raritan Bay right now.  They did not just appear 
there out of nowhere, and we need to ensure that we’re reducing and, 
ultimately, eliminating the number of plastic contaminants in our 
waterways and, ultimately, in our drinking water. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Doug. 
 
Jeff Tittel, Sierra Club. 
 
MR. TITTEL:  Thank you. 
 
I just want to say that this Legislature and this State has always 
been a leader in the concept of pollute or pay.  And the reason is, partially, 
because it works.  Because when companies realize that they have to pay to 
clean up their mess, there’s a potential they will make a better, safer 
product.  We saw that when we’ve done things on inherently safer 
technologies when it comes to chemical plants and other things. 
 
So I think this is a good step in the right direction, just to say 
that we need to get businesses and government working together to make 
things better. 
 
 
 
16 
 
You know, we found more than 3 million plastic particles per 
square inch in parts of the Passaic and Raritan rivers above water supply 
intakes.  You can’t filter that out; that’s getting into our water supply. 
 
We heard testimony from recycling companies about how, 
when they try to do sort separation, the plastic bags clog up their machines, 
and really hurt the efforts of recycling. 
 
And so I think this is more about sending a message to really 
get businesses and government to cooperate, and to help reduce, and make 
things better. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
And that concludes our witnesses. 
 
Any comments from Committee members? (no response)  
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Motion. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right; motion to release by Senator 
Greenstein. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Second. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Second by Governor Codey. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  On the motion to release Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 136, Senator Oroho abstains. 
 
Senator Bateman. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  I’m going to abstain, too. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Governor Codey. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Yes. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes. 
 
 
 
17 
 
MR. PETERSON:  And Chairman Smith. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
And the Resolution is released. 
 
And now for the main event. (laughter) 
 
So a little background information. 
 
Again, if you haven’t gotten your transcripts, you want to get 
your transcript, all right?  This is a serious environmental and public health 
crisis. 
 
So a little description of the Bill. 
 
And by the way, there’s a substitute Bill; are the substitutes on 
the table? 
 
MR. PETERSON:  There are copies on the table. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  If you haven’t gotten a substitute Bill, you 
want to get the substitute Bill. 
 
The substitute Bill would ban single-use plastic film carryout 
bags, polystyrene foam -- commonly known as Styrofoam -- food service 
products, and single-use plastic straws.  Additionally, the Bill would place a 
minimum of a 10-cent fee on paper bags, and require 5 cents from each 
paper bag to be remitted to the State and placed in the newly created 
Plastic Pollution Prevention Fund. 
 
The ban on plastic products and a fee on paper bags would go 
into effect one year after the Bill is signed. 
 
Now, what’s the reasoning for all that?  Number one, those 
three products are the three products that are having the greatest impact on 
New Jersey waterways and on our environment.  One of the really insightful 
comments at the hearing were the comments from Clean Ocean Action.  
 
 
 
18 
You know, they do the annual Beach Sweeps in New Jersey; they’ve been 
doing it for years.  So Cindy Zipf--  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF AUDIENCE:  Zipf (indicating 
pronunciation). 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --came forward; and the numbers were 
staggering, again. 
 
(peruses his files) 
 
My plastics file is too big. (laughter) 
 
All right; I’m going to ask Kate to find the number, and then 
we’re going to come back to you with the number.  But it’s absolutely huge. 
 
And then the comments from the good doctors -- the Ph.D.s -- 
also staggering. 
 
So, for example, Keith Cooper, I think--  And I think we have 
Dr. Cooper here, right?  So we’re going to have you up in a second. 
 
But he talked about studies in New Jersey; about the degree of 
plastics bioaccumulation in our waterways, and now in our fish.  So one of 
his comments, “So it turns out that where we saw the highest densities of 
microplastics were at the two farthest upstream locations -- Livingston, New 
Jersey, and Bridgewater -- which we did not expect to see.  And that was 
under dry weather conditions.  When we had wet weather, we started seeing 
the microplastics building up in places like Lyndhurst, further down the 
Passaic, out near the Bay.” 
 
And by the way, if I’m a legislator who has those towns in his 
or her District-- 
 
So another comment from Dr. Cooper. 
 
 
 
19 
 
“So the plastic itself may only be part of the story,” as Dr. 
Cooper mentioned.  “We found over 300 -- we identified over 300 organic 
compounds that were attached to these pieces of plastic.  And they weren’t 
the same at every location.  So we saw patterns where certain places had a 
high accumulation of these organic compounds; Elmwood Park was one 
place.  We think it might be because it’s above the Dundee Dam, so things 
might be collecting there in higher concentrations.  But the two places 
where we saw the highest densities…were Raritan Borough and Bound 
Brook.  So these patterns are not consistent along the reach of the river.”  
But it’s everywhere in New Jersey. 
 
So the Bill says, within a year, let’s get these three big items off 
the table. 
 
It 
also 
creates 
a 
Plastic 
Pollution 
Prevention 
Fund, 
administered by the DEP.  Any penalties collected as a result of violations 
would go into that fund, and also the nickel-a-paper bag would go into that 
fund.  And that would help in terms of setting up that -- hopefully, a State 
recycling -- plastics recycling, hopefully in the private sector, to continue to 
recycle plastic. 
 
There’s also -- and not to get all the enviros crazy -- but there’s 
also an annual exemption review.  That one of the things -- when I talked to 
the Senate President, he said, “You want to be small-business friendly.”  So 
there is a way to come to the DEP and request an exemption, a year at a 
time, when there are not feasible alternatives.  And there is also--  If you 
remember in Senator Ruiz’s Bill, she had what was euphemistically called 
the Bodega Exemption, where small businesses could be exempt.  And that’s in 
here, too. 
 
 
 
20 
 
And then it also requires that the DEP, within a year after the 
Bill goes into effect -- that they report back and we see how we’re doing. 
 
So anyway, it’s a big Bill, and it requires New Jersey citizens to 
change their lifestyle.  You know, when you go get your groceries, you’re 
going to be bringing in your bags -- the reusable bags -- to bring the 
groceries out of the market and take them home.  That’s one of the things 
that has to happen. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  If I may, I have a question while you 
raise that point. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Because education is so important-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  --in this regard.  Obviously, it won’t 
take effect for a year, once the Governor signs it--  Which probably won’t be 
for a month or two, because it still has to go to Appropriations; it has to go 
through the other house. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It will take longer, honest. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  It will probably take longer than that. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  This is a tough Bill. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  But should we have a year from that 
point to transition?  Because we’re trying to get the public away from 
plastics; but yet, we’re going to charge them 10 cents for a paper bag. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  So, I mean, should there be a time 
period in there to educate the public, saying, “You know, we’re trying to get 
plastics out of the waste stream in a year from now--” 
 
 
 
21 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So in other words, have an exemption on 
the paper bags for some period of time-- 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  The fee. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --before the fee kicks in.  That’s not a bad 
suggestion. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  I think you’re hitting them twice. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That’s not a bad suggestion. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  I mean, two shots; you’re hitting them 
back-to-back.  And maybe they need--  Once people get educated--  And a 
lot of people are using the reusables right now. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  I mean, my wife will use them, but a 
lot of people don’t.  But if you tell them-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Give them a transition-- 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Transition-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --and tell them that the price of poker is 
going up. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  It’s something to think about. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I think it’s a pretty good idea, actually. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I like that idea. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s a pretty good idea. 
 
How does--  And, I mean, we haven’t heard any testimony yet, 
so why don’t we discuss it after we get the testimony? 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Absolutely.  I have a couple of other 
concerns, but let’s hear the-- 
 
 
 
22 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, and by the way, the beach cleanup 
numbers -- I guess Kate did find them -- these are the 2017 results from 
Clean Ocean Action.  And this was a six-hour clean up; six hours: 373,686 
pieces of debris; 84 percent of every item collected was plastic or Styrofoam; 
9,052 store shopping bags; 31,167 straws; 928 fast food foam containers; 
3,455 foam cups; 21,117 foam pieces.  This was in 2017; six hours of clean 
up at the Jersey Shore. 
 
Do you want to go to a beach that’s an ashtray or a garbage 
can, or do you want to go to a clean beach? 
 
So with that prejudicial comment (laughter), let’s start taking 
some testimony. 
 
So in the category of no need to testify, Lena Smith, Food and 
Water Watch, in favor, no need to testify; Laurie Ehlbeck, from the NFIB -- 
which is what?   
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  National Federation of Independent 
Businesses. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Opposed, no need to testify; John 
Holub, New Jersey Retail Merchants Association, opposed, no need to 
testify; and Jaimin Shah, Asian American Retailers Association, opposed, no 
need to testify. 
 
All right; so our first witness is going to be one of our academic 
superstars from the August hearing -- I’d ask Keith Cooper to come forward.  
Keith is from Rutgers University.   
 
I assume it’s Dr. Keith Cooper, right? 
K E I T H   R.   C O O P E R,   Ph.D.: (off mike)  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Everybody is a Ph.D. (laughter) 
 
 
 
23 
 
Come on up. 
 
And my recollection is you’re also the Chairman of the New 
Jersey Drinking Water Institute. 
 
DR. COOPER:  Yes, yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Great; we’d love to hear what you have to 
say. 
 
DR. COOPER:  All right; thank you very much for inviting me. 
 
I would like to say that my background is in environmental and 
comparative toxicology; and I do a fair amount of work on fate, transport, 
and risk. 
 
So one of the reasons why our laboratory, with Dr. Beth Ravit  
-- we started to look at the questions about the microplastics in surface 
waters.  And as the Chairman had stated earlier, we were surprised at some 
of the results that we found.  This issue has been -- being recognized for a 
number of years.  The question has also been how extensive is it, both 
within freshwaters, estuaries, and going into the oceans. 
 
So the utilization of plastics--  We realize that is a commercial 
product which is going to be continued to be used.  But this Bill is 
important -- and I really support it, and I applaud you all for doing this -- 
because it starts to look at the utilization of plastics which are used only a 
single time.  The single-use approach is not sustainable; and that’s part of 
the issue that you have to look at when you’re looking at any type of large 
production product.  How sustainable is it once it gets in the environment?  
And we know that these particular products -- once they get in, literally 
they are in the environment for 500 to 1,000 years, depending on where 
they’re actually ending up.   
 
 
 
24 
 
And as I said before, the smaller particles, as they break down, 
also pose health effects and environmental effects to the organisms. 
 
So the Bill establishes a mechanism by which both outreach 
and education of the public -- both as an individual consumer and the 
businesses -- benefits those particular people, as well as the people within 
the state.  I applaud that; because as we are all aware, that in order to 
educate the public we need to have a robust outreach approach to change 
the habits.  And that’s part of the reason why this Bill is also extremely 
important, because it also sets up a mechanism by which you can utilize 
some of those funds for direct outreach; and working, as I said, not only 
with the individuals, but with the small businesses -- how do we approach 
them? 
 
It also establishes a statewide approach that will begin to reduce 
the volume of single-use plastics and Styrofoam, stimulate the development 
of replacements that have less environmental impacts, and begin 
development of remediation alternatives that have less of an environmental 
and human impact.  I think those three components are extremely 
important, and are included within the Bill; and I applaud you for that. 
 
I think, also, that there needs to be an industrial revisitation of 
what we call life cycle analysis.  And the reason I’m saying that--  Life cycle 
analysis is really from production -- the components which are comprising 
the plastics, how they’re made, how they cycle through the environment 
itself. 
 
And also, the problem has always been that life cycle analyses 
has always pretty much stopped once it’s gone into the consumer product.  
And it has not included, in it, as much into the remediation cost or the 
 
 
 
25 
potential health impacts.  And I will say this:  As long as industry realizes 
that there is no direct cost to them over the long-term for their long-term 
activities, they will not necessarily initiate appropriate things.  So the 
legislation is one of the ways in which you can fulfill that requirement -- 
that they start to look at this. 
 
Now, as you said before, I am the Chairman of the New Jersey 
Drinking Water Quality Institute.  And in some ways I would actually--  
Sitting here listening, one of the things that I would actually support would 
be within -- utilizing the DEP, or the DOH, or these others to actually 
establish a group, which is not only academics -- like the Drinking Water 
Quality Institute -- but also has industry; has the stakeholders involved in 
it.  And actually put together a group that is, sort of, a working group to, 
sort of, shepherd some of these ideas through to see how they can actually 
progress, and actually move through to make recommendations. 
 
Because it is really important to understand that industry--  
Although lots of times we paint them as black -- in black hats, plastics do a 
tremendous amount of good in the country.  The problem is that the sheer 
volume of it and the impact on the environment and human health needs to 
be taken into consideration. 
 
 
But I think that getting all of the groups together is extremely 
important; because through different ideas, you get new innovations.  Like, 
I like the idea -- which was proposed earlier, that was a unique idea in some 
ways -- of saying, “Okay, let’s not double-hit on the plastic bags.  Let’s allow 
them to-- ”   So discussions like that is what is needed. 
 
And in my closing remarks, I highly support this Bill and the --
on things.  And I just want to say that I want to invite--  This is also a 
 
 
 
26 
Federal issue; and the National Institute for Environmental Health Issues 
has funded us to put together an international-national meeting in the 
beginning of April.  And that particular meeting -- I would like to invite the 
industry, all the NGOs, and your Committee, as well as interested people to 
come, and actually have a robust discussion on these.  What are the 
implications?  What I found working with the DEP, working with the New 
Jersey Drinking Water Quality Institute, is if you do not get buy-in from 
most of the stakeholders--  We’ve already identified the hazard; now we 
have to go in and identify how we’re going to reduce the risk, both to the 
environment and to the people who are being exposed to it. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Doctor, thank you. 
 
Any questions for the good doctor? 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  No; but if I may comment. 
 
I do like his idea about the stakeholder group. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Plastics Advisory Council. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Another good idea; absolutely. 
 
Anything else? (no response) 
 
All right; our next witness, Jeff Tittel, Sierra Club. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  I just want to know if he gets paid 
every time he testifies. (laughter) 
 
MR. TITTEL:  That’s supposed to be Codey’s joke. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Whether or not his good line got in the 
paper or not. (laughter) 
 
 
 
27 
 
MR. TITTEL:  I just want to thank the Committee, and also 
the Governor; because sometimes from vetoing a bill that’s not so good you 
get a Bill that’s a lot better.  And I think this is where we should be. 
 
This is the strongest and most comprehensive plastics 
legislation in the country right now.  And you have to look at it -- that the 
key part of this Bill is that three of the worst offenders of plastic pollution 
are targeted in this Bill: single-use plastic bags, polystyrene food containers, 
and straws.  So no matter what else you hear, or whatever little tweaks here 
and there people may want to talk about, the key is this Bill is a huge leap 
forward environmentally for this state and for this country.   
 
Because I believe if we pass this Bill, other states will be looking 
the same way.  We’ve seen California ban plastic bags; Seattle has banned 
straws; I’m from the town of Lambertville, and we passed all three.  And I’m 
going to talk a little bit about that, because I think it goes into 
implementation.   
 
So I think no matter what, this Bill is terrific.  There’s going to 
be some work to get it passed, and tweaks here and there.  But the main 
thing is, that when you think about where we were a year ago, and where 
we are today, this is absolutely huge; and I think you have to look at it in 
the big picture for the State and, potentially, for this country. 
 
First and foremost, we know plastic bags are a scourge on the 
environment, clogging storm drains, messing up recycling -- everything else. 
We have these massive islands that are becoming continents in our oceans.  
We see storm drains flooding; we see stuff in storm drains, you know, and 
flooding because of plastic bags.   
 
 
 
28 
 
So the point I want to make is that they’re clogging storm 
drains, they’re causing -- they found 18 pounds of plastics bags in a whale; 
birds--  They’ve become a menace.  We also know that when they break 
down in the environment, they end up getting into the water supply and to 
us.  So we know we have a serious problem, and this Bill will go a long way 
to help deal with that. 
 
And the point about plastic bags is that they’re also made 
because of fracking and natural gas.  Because it’s the -- it’s when they take 
out the methane and the propane from the natural gas, the leftover ethylene 
is used to make these bags.  So this is also important when it comes to 
dealing with pipelines and the whole issue of fracking, because this is one of 
the byproducts.  And so by stopping the use of these bags, we’re also 
dealing with that issue as well. 
 
And what we have seen around the nation -- and that’s why this 
Bill is so important -- where we’ve gone to a pure ban, with a 10 cent fee on 
paper, we’ve seen the best results.  Los Angeles County saw a 94 percent 
result when they went to do this.  In San Jose they saw an 89 percent 
reduction in plastic bags in their storm drains.  And so for us, the big thing 
about the Bill is the ban. What happens with that 10 cents, I think -- to me, 
it doesn’t matter as much as having the ban. 
 
What happened in California -- the 10 cent fee went to the 
food stores and the others to pay for the paper bags; and that got their 
support.  So in L.A. County the supermarkets there, and the Food Council, 
went from opposed to support.  
 
And so if we do that here, that’s fine.  And then the Fund can 
only be funded by, maybe, fines.  We also should look at -- if we do have 
 
 
 
29 
this Fund -- for education and enforcement; and maybe the towns that may 
have to be the ones doing the enforcement should get some of the fines.  
Because in Lambertville, where we did the ordinance, it’s going to be the 
town’s code enforcement people who are going to enforce the ban on plastic 
bags and straws there.  And so it may help with the League of 
Municipalities, and that, to do that as well, so they get a piece of the 
enforcement to pay for that inspection.  Because we’re not going to be 
sending DEP to inspect the supermarkets.  People are going to do it--  
When they come in to do their normal code enforcements anyway, they’ll 
be looking to see--  
 
And again -- and the fines and that -- it’s not somebody giving 
out a plastic bag who is going to be fined.  It’s when the building inspector 
comes in and sees a pallet of plastic bags -- that’s when you’re going to get 
the citation.  It’s not somebody just “Oh, I have an extra plastic bag,” and 
they put a carton of milk in it, and they give it to somebody.  Nobody is 
going to get fined for that.  It’s not about going after the consumer; it’s 
about going after the businesses that deliberately break the law.  That’s 
fake.  To look at the enforcement piece. 
 
The education piece is critical.  In Lambertville, we’ve put 
together, with the Environmental Commission and local businesses--  
Because many of the businesses in town came out to support it.  Many of 
the--  I mean, if you go to Lambertville -- from Broadmoor, to DeAnna’s, to 
owowcow, and all the -- you know, they support it.  And they’re working 
with the other businesses, with the Environmental Commission, to do the 
implementation and the education, which I think is the other critical piece. 
 
 
 
30 
 
And getting on to straws -- you know, when we do our beach 
cleanups, too, we find--  They found 50,000 straws in Ocean County when 
Sierra Club did their last beach cleanup there a few years ago.  They’ve 
become a menace.  They’re not--  You know, they don’t break down 
properly in the environment.  And, too -- and I think this is the most 
progressive.  Seattle has done it, and we can learn from Seattle and how 
they’ve implemented it.  California passed a bill where you can’t -- where 
you can’t give a straw out anymore.  This is better, because I think we’re 
dealing with the issue.   
 
And then, going to food containers.  Polystyrene, when we 
make it, again, we’re using a lot of toxic chemicals, from HFC to styrene.  
And you know, getting that out of the environment, and we know that 
we’re finding Styrofoam in women’s breast milk.  It’s another major health 
hazard, so banning it--  And there are a lot of alternatives; and, again, in 
Lambertville and other towns, they’re working on those alternatives for 
that. 
 
And so this is a really important Bill.  And I think even having 
those councils to work on a waiver, if somebody can’t get it, work; because 
it gives somebody a relief.  We’re not coming in here to say -- we’re going to 
tell you exactly how you’re going to live your life.  What we’re saying is, we 
have a serious health problem, we have a serious environmental problem, 
and we’re going to start grappling with it.  And here are the tools that we’re 
going to have for you, the citizen, through education and why you should 
bring reusable bags.  But also, for the businesses.  And this is how -- the best 
way to implement it; these are the other products that are available out 
 
 
 
31 
there.  And every day there are more and more products coming out to 
replace the food containers as well.   
 
So we think this Bill is really an important step forward for the 
State. 
 
And I want to thank you; and I’ll take any questions, if 
anybody has any. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And questions for Jeff? (no response) 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
And I’m going to try to go back and forth. 
 
Ed Wengryn, New Jersey Farm Bureau, opposed. 
E D   W E N G R Y N:   Chairman, members of the Committee, thanks for 
holding a hearing today. 
 
I’m one of the people who just got the amendments this 
morning.  So we had some concerns and questions, more about the Bill than 
actually being imposed  -- outright opposed. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. WENGRYN:  And hopefully we can, though discussion, 
solve some of those things. 
 
We’ve been looking into -- we know a couple of the farm 
counties and stuff that do corn starch-based plastics, and we’re trying to 
find out their breakdown, and how effective they are in actually being 
biodegradable in the environment.  So we’re still looking at that situation.
 
We have some questions on the use of the Styrofoam trays for 
meat, fish, and poultry.  A lot of farm markets, and also farm producers, 
now do pre-cut, packaged, ready-to-go, take home and cook.  Asparagus is 
usually wrapped that way; green beans are wrapped that way.  And 
 
 
 
32 
vegetables were left off that list, so we’d like you to reconsider, looking at 
how fresh produce uses those containers for both shipping and take home, 
ready-to-use food service prep. 
 
Again, because it says a carryout plastic bag, we also have people 
who go to a farm market, and they’ll pick out two or three tomatoes and 
put them in little plastics bag.  And then they’ll separate all their stuff -- 
potatoes will go into one, and they keep it.  But then they may not take a 
big plastic bag, or have a carryout bag for themselves; but they’ll grab all 
four bags together and carry them out.  Is that now -- those food safety 
bags, are they carry-out bags? 
 
So these are some of the questions and concerns we have, 
looking at the Bill, going forward, that we’d like to see clarified.  You know, 
it was very nice for Jeff to say, you know, “We’re not going after the 
consumer.  We’re looking for a store, with a big pallet of bags, ready to go.”  
But it says a ban; a store shall not give--  And so if those plastics bags are 
being given, are they then subject to the fines and penalties outlined in the 
Bill? 
 
So those are our concerns, and we wanted to bring them to the 
Committee’s attention. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay; we appreciate the comments. 
 
And through the legislative process, I’m sure we’ll be able to 
deal with them. 
 
 
MR. WENGRYN:  All right; thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  In favor -- is it Noemi de la Puente 
(indicating pronunciation)? 
 
 
 
33 
N O E M I   D E   L A PUENTE:  (off mike)  Noemi (indicating 
pronunciation). 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay 
-- from the New Jersey 
Environmental Lobby, in favor. 
 
MS. DE LA PUENTE:  Thank you, thank you. 
 
I have a few gifts for you all.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Actually, you don’t want to say gifts. 
(laughter)  It makes the ethics people crazy.  You have information for us; 
thank you. 
 
MS. De LA PUENTE:  I have information for you; with a special 
packet of information for Senator Smith, which contains information I 
downloaded from the Seattle Public Utilities, that addresses how they 
communicate with merchants on all of the non-biodegradable and non-
compostable ware that they have banned. 
 
Seattle banned Styrofoam in 2009; in 2010, Seattle banned all 
non-compostable, non-biodegradable, and non-recyclable ware that is used 
in any kind of food service distribution to the public. 
 
So I thought it would be useful for you, moving forward, to 
have that information. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
MS. De LA PUENTE:  Yes. 
 
So the little packet of information that I’ve handed out -- let’s 
just skip to the numbers and go to the pictures.   
 
The first picture looks like this (indicates) in the packet.  This 
is from the EPA Municipal Solid Waste Report.  This picture is from the 
 
 
 
34 
Waste Report of 2012; the other picture is from the Waste Report that was 
just put out. 
 
This shows a very successful picture, and a very epic fail picture.  
You can guess the successful picture is this rising line (indicates), which is 
the amount of plastic waste that we put out as a nation; and the flat little 
humble line at the very bottom (indicates) is the amount of plastic waste 
that we actually recycle or recover for energy.  So you can see that we need 
to do a lot, in order to catch up to get this bottom line closer to this top 
line. 
 
And the numbers are attached for your staff and for your 
further review. 
 
If you go this picture (indicates) -- which is from the most 
current EPA Municipal Solid Waste Report -- you’ll see that we’ve gotten, 
as a society, marginally better at burning plastic than we have at recycling 
plastic.  And the landfill is the gray amount, and it’s still an enormous part.  
So anything that you can do--  This Bill, in particular, is a great first charge 
at this. 
 
I just want to also alert you to the fact that our neighbor across 
the Hudson, New York City, is implementing a Styrofoam ban on January 
1, 2019.  They had a long and arduous relationship with the Styrofoam 
industry that involved a lawsuit, involved a very comprehensive study by 
Sanitation Commissioner Kathryn Garcia.  And she came to the conclusion 
that Styrofoam used in the food industry is not recyclable at all.  And so the 
courts upheld her findings, and that’s why this ban, that has had several 
false starts, is now finally happening in 2019. 
 
 
 
 
35 
 
Just a reminder:  Recycling is market-driven; so if nobody is 
willing to pay cost of transportation, plus collection, plus processing, plus 
your profit as the recycler, then you’re not going to have a market.  So keep 
that in mind, moving forward, as you think about market -- plastic recycling 
markets in New Jersey. 
 
 
Regarding Bill S-2276 -- just specifically, I think Section 
5a sets a minimum fee.  That’s great; that gives the retailer latitude to 
increase the price, should they stick with only paper bags.  You may want to 
include some sort of recycled content provision so that we create a market 
for recycled paper, which is what San Francisco did. 
 
I would say that you need to open up the language; because 
when you only say paper, that just means paper.  There are many other types 
of plastic films and types of bags around, and they include compostable, 
biodegradable.  And we can argue about the validity of those terms, which I 
won’t argue; we can sidebar about that. 
 
But I believe that if you just say any bag -- that there’s a 
minimum price of 10 cents on any bag and not restrict it to paper, that 
leaves it open for other materials as they come into being.  Because there is 
a lag between these cornstarch and polylactic acid-type plastic utensils and 
bags, that the Farm Bureau spoke of, and the commercial composting that is 
necessary to completely biodegrade them.  So the biodegradable plastics is 
just a little bit ahead of our practices of source separation and composting 
of organic waste. 
 
I suggest -- or the New Jersey Environmental Lobby suggests 
that you open up the language in Section 6, the Pollution Prevention Fund, 
to include public -- not just grants for recycling and other industry-related 
 
 
 
36 
things -- but public education, research and development, on how we, as a 
society, move away from disposable plastics.  How do we adjust our food 
supply chain so that they use less disposable plastic?  How can we 
implement refillable stations at supermarkets for things that we use up all 
the time, like laundry soap and shampoo?  I’ve seen this done at small 
stores in New York City, where one small organic grocery store has pump 
dispensers for shampoo, and conditioner, and body wash.  And you go with 
you container and you fill it up there. 
 
 
So I think that the research -- it needs to be deeper, and it 
needs to cover monitoring; how are our efforts in plastic pollution reduction 
working?  Is there something that’s working really well?  Can we amp it up?  
Is there something that’s working poorly, so it’s not worth the agita to 
industry?  
 
And lastly, I think that we need to have provisions for 
providing reusable bags for those who don’t have access to them, or for 
those who don’t -- can’t afford them.  Like, at Pennington Day, you can get, 
like, a hundred reusable bags.  But where is that happening in Trenton?   
 
I also encourage the Committee to think about having a 
provision for reducing the fee or forgiving the fee for any SNAP or WIC 
transactions, so that those who are on that kind of income assistance do not 
face that financial burden.  It’s really hard to be poor.  I hope that we make 
it not harder; you know, that we don’t make it harder. 
 
And I just want to drive the point home -- look at your desks,  
and look at what you’re drinking out of, and look at what your muffins are 
wrapped in, and stuff.  And how many of you leaders have one of these 
(indicates)?  It’s a very simple adjustment; and that’s what I mean by that 
 
 
 
37 
research and development.  We need to dig deep into our societal accepted 
assumptions and see:  Are they valid or not?  I encourage you, each member 
of the Committee, to get some kind of reusable bottle that you can have 
your coffee in.  You’re busy people; you get coffee on the go, drinks on the 
go.  This is hot and cold.  So we need to be the change.   
 
And so I put my contact information on the data, if you need 
to speak with me. 
 
I also just want to let you know that on June 6, 2018, the 
President of Costa Rica signed a directive instructing the Ministers of 
Education, and Justice, as well as Social Security, to stop the purchase, use, 
and consumption of single-use plastics; so that is single-use plastics across 
the board.  So it can be done by leaders. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments, and some 
really good suggestions. 
 
Dennis Hart, Chemistry Council of New Jersey, opposed. 
D E N N I S   H A R T:  Good morning, Mr. Chairman. 
 
I also asked Margaret Gorman, from the American Chemistry 
Council, to join me. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure. 
 
MR. HART:  Thank you. 
 
This morning -- Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, 
thank you for allowing us to address you this morning on this very 
important issue. 
 
My name is Dennis Hart, Executive Director of the New Jersey 
Chemistry Council of New Jersey. 
 
 
 
38 
 
Respecting your time, I’m going to give a brief opening 
statement, and then turn over my time to Margaret Gorman of the 
American Chemistry Council. 
 
The banning of polystyrene food containers will have a 
dramatic negative impact on New Jersey businesses.  For the most part, the 
public and businesses are not even aware that this is even under 
consideration.  The food service industry and restaurants are marginal 
businesses at best, where small changes in costs can mean the difference 
between profitability or going out of business.   
 
 The reason that polystyrene products are used is because of 
their performance in keeping food hot or cold, easy to handle, and less 
costly than the alternatives.  Not only are paper cups and cardboard food 
containers two to ten times more expensive, they do not give the customers 
the quality of the food that they demand.  
 
Along with this, there needs to be -- as Professor Cooper talked 
about -- there needs to be an evaluation of the total environmental impact 
of all products.  Paper products are 10 times heavier, there’s more handling, 
there’s more truck traffic, there’s the resources that need to go into paper.  
You need to take--  If you’re going to look at one product, I think all 
product evaluations have to go on. 
 
If you just look outside this building in Trenton--  I’ve been 
working in Trenton, now, for almost 40 years.  There are very few 
restaurants left; if you walk between here and DEP, there are very few 
restaurants left in Trenton.  There are a few food delivery places that are 
having a hard time, struggling to stay in business.  Something like this, 
causing their product costs to go up, could mean the difference between 
 
 
 
39 
having less food product businesses in New Jersey, and less in Trenton; and 
more people just calling across the river to Morrisville and ordering their 
food and having it show up hot from across the river, which would be less 
for business. 
 
Back in the late 1960s and early 1970s, I was involved in our 
local Boy Scout troop, and we implemented one of, if not the first recycling 
program in the state.  We had people drop off, on a monthly basis, glass, 
paper, magazines, newspapers.  And we sold those products for our troop, 
for our events.   
 
And you remember, in the 1970s and 1980s, people didn’t 
think recycling of glass could happen.  It was too cumbersome; they had all 
different separate containers.  But over time, recycling of glass bottles, 
paper, then plastics, has become an everyday occurrence  
 
And what we need to do is, is think about polystyrene in the 
same way.  Polystyrene is different than what people have testified; it is 
recyclable.  And this is the beginning of the recycling industry.  So there are 
products-- And Margaret’s going to talk about some of the recycling 
activities that are going on; some other folks are going to talk about that as 
well.  But if we were to cut off that industry now, we’re not following the 
same thing we did back in the 1970s and 1980s, when we implemented 
recycling of glass and bottles. 
 
Combined with the recycling, we need to know that this is 
really a problem of littering.  That’s what’s causing the issue.  I looked at 
the same Clean Ocean Action, Mr. Chairman -- that report from 2017, with 
the 373,000 pieces of debris being picked up.  Less than 1 percent are foam 
cups; there were 1,500 -- about 0.5 percent -- were paper cups.  So next 
 
 
 
40 
time there will be 4,500 cups instead of Styrofoam, because people are not 
investing in litter control any longer.  There used to be the funding from the 
Clean Communities Program for DEP to deal with litter control.  There 
used to be advertisements against littering; advertisements that you don’t 
see any longer.  And we really think we need to also have an effort on anti-
litter control efforts as well. 
 
Finally, the banning of polystyrene products in public schools 
and institutions will cause an increase in costs to school systems and the 
State.  And these schools and these institutions are struggling to make ends 
meet right now.  While many schools are not able to afford to correct 
problems such as lead in their drinking water, they’re going to be forced 
now to spend money to substitute products for their school lunch and 
breakfast program that are two to ten times more expensive than they have 
to pay right now. 
 
So I ask that we take the time to evaluate polystyrene recycling 
management prior to taking this drastic action.  It will have so many 
negative impacts in New Jersey. 
 
And with that, I’ll turn it over to Margaret. 
M A R G A R E T   G O R M A N:   Thank you; and thank you, Mr. 
Chairman, for allowing me the opportunity to speak today. 
 
I actually -- we’ve submitted written comment to oppose the 
Bill.  I want to talk a lot about solutions today, truthfully, and how we can 
work with the State of New Jersey on other opportunities as well. 
 
Littering is definitely a big issue with all sectors.  Although 
plastics provide important benefits for modern life, plastics, polystyrene, 
and other trash should not be littered and not end up in our waterways. 
 
 
 
41 
 
Several cities and states have proposed bans on safe products, 
like polystyrene foam food service products, as a way to solve the litter or 
waste problem.  But we do know from experience that bans do not fix these 
issues. 
 
We’ve certainly done a significant amount of work.  We’ve 
done clean-up programs; we’ve partnered with states, we’ve partnered with 
groups.  I was actually in a state last year--  The study in New Jersey was 
interesting, in that it was polystyrene and plastics only, when you were 
doing a beach cleanup.  I was actually in an area last year in a state that had 
a ban in a particular city; and I was still cleaning up a lot of trash.  There’s a 
significant issue here, I think, with litter awareness and consumer awareness 
as well. 
 
We’ve worked, nationally, on Wrap Recycling Action Program, 
for one; and that’s actually a take-back program with grocery stores on 
polyethylene bags -- so your produce bags, wraps for paper towels, things 
like that. 
 
But the issue is, the consumers don’t know that that’s actually 
happening.  So we’ve worked in states -- Connecticut -- we worked with the 
Department of Environment Protection last year on increasing consumer 
awareness.  We’re working in New York right now on that as well.  That’s 
just a small part of the issue though. 
 
I thoroughly agree with Dr. Cooper’s recommendation on 
establishing a Task Force here to look at the issues.  They’ve actually 
established one in New York state.  This was started last month by the 
Governor’s Office.  It’s being run by the Department of Environmental 
Conservation, and everybody is at the table.  The American Chemistry 
 
 
 
42 
Council is a member; they have business groups, environmental groups.  
And a large part of this Task Force is actually the workers in the counties 
who are taking back all the trash, and how they’re dealing with recycling 
issues.  So from that work group they’re breaking that down into education, 
consumer awareness, and recycling infrastructure, because a lot of this is 
coming from China not taking anything anymore.  So that certainly has 
been a big issue as well. 
 
Rhode Island came out as well.  Governor Raimondo came out 
with an Executive Order recently to establish a Plastics Task Force.  We’re 
going to be involved with that too; and I think it’s really going to be 
bringing every sector in that is impacted by this particular issue. 
 
I also want to talk about polystyrene recycling, because we 
certainly don’t agree with a ban.  It can be recycled.  There’s actually a 
successful program in Sussex County, New Jersey, right now.  They are 
taking polystyrene products.  It’s an award-winning program where Sussex 
County Municipal Utilities Authority partnered with Foam Cycle, and they 
manufacture densifiers to provide a drop-off program for residents.  So then 
they’re selling that to an in-state company, called Princeton Molding, who 
is recycling polystyrene and using it to make plastic frames.  So you have  
the program happening, and they’re selling it to an in-state business, who’s 
actually using it.  And I understand Princeton Molding also sent a letter to 
the Committee as well, just opposing the Bill. 
 
So aside from Sussex County, there are also opportunities for 
other municipalities in New Jersey.  There’s also Foam Recycling Coalition, 
that was established by industry a few years ago, to try to deal with this 
problem, funding grant programs that counties can apply for to recycle.  I 
 
 
 
43 
know there’s one happening in Madison County, New York that’s 
successful right now.  There’s a drop-off location in Yonkers, and there are 
programs all over the country on polystyrene recycling.  So there are 
definitely opportunities out there. 
 
So just to close, we certainly don’t agree with the ban, and 
certainly support solutions that we can come together on the issue with 
recycling. 
 
And thank you for your time today. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
Any questions? (no response) 
 
All right; then Douglass Kellogg, Americans for Tax Reform, in 
opposition. 
 
Are you here, Mr. Kellogg? 
D O U G L A S   K E L L O G G:  (off mike)  I’m here. 
 
Thank you, Chairman Smith; and thank you, Senators.  I really 
greatly appreciate you listening to our testimony today on this important 
issue. 
 
My name is Douglas Kellogg; I’m State Projects Director with 
Americans for Tax Reform.  Americans for Tax Reform was founded in 
1985, at the request of President Reagan, by Grover Norquist, to advocate 
for tax reform. 
 
Today we advocate for taxpayers; and we advocate for policy 
that protects taxpayers, consumers, entrepreneurs, and fosters an economic 
climate that enables taxes to be as few, low, and simple as possible. 
 
As someone who’s been fortunate enough to live and work in 
New Jersey, and with family who’s called New Jersey home, I’m always very 
 
 
 
44 
happy to be here.  Unfortunately, the legislation I’m here today to voice our 
strong opposition to would make the state a more difficult place to live, 
work, raise a family, and run a business. 
 
A first-in-the-nation ban on plastic bags, straws, and 
polystyrene containers is an over-aggressive policy that will punish your 
residents and businesses, and introduce a slew of unintended consequences, 
and still may fail to provide the intended environmental benefit. 
 
A whopping 2 million people have left the state, between 2006 
and 2014.  Since 1992, departing residents have taken $35 billion in 
income with them.  This is to say that there is a significant burden on these 
folks, and they cannot afford to build a future in this state. 
 
New Jersey remains dead last in business tax climate.  The last 
thing this State needs is to continue to add to burdens for businesses in 
light of these statistics.  Despite recent month-to-month figures improving 
on jobs, the State’s labor force has lost 34,000 workers from August 2017 
to August 2018; and a more whopping 61,000 workers since January 2015.  
An incredible 78 percent of revenue growth projected for next year is 
coming from tax hikes. 
 
Again, these numbers go to show that the tax base is being 
jeopardized.  Revenue is leaving.  The State cannot afford to make the 
problem worse by piling bans on products that create jobs and efficiency for 
New Jersey businesses. 
 
The plastics industry employs 18,000 people in the state.  You 
have companies producing Styrofoam; and even those that recycle it will be 
hurt or potentially killed by a ban. 
 
 
 
45 
 
Foam containers are relied upon by moderately priced 
restaurants with a high number of take-out orders.  Banning them will drive 
up costs for these business owners and reduce quality.  Meanwhile, foam 
containers are convenient, reliable, FDA-approved, and safe. 
 
Banning plastic bags means stores have to buy costlier bags and 
pass on that cost to customers.  The transition will burden stores; perhaps 
even worse, lower income folks, and seniors, people who cannot afford to 
buy additional bags, carry them around in their car; people have to travel 
additional distances to reach a store -- they will be hit the hardest. 
 
The straw ban is, frankly, based on a moral panic driven by 
social media-era virtual signaling and phony numbers that are crafted by a 
grade-schooler.  Beyond imposing new costs on businesses, unintended 
consequences of a straw ban will hurt people with certain disabilities who 
rely on straws.  And for what benefit?   
 
An analysis by the Hemholtz Center-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  By the way, you do know there’s a 
disability exemption here; that if any person with a disability needs a straw, 
they can get it in a restaurant. 
 
MR. KELLOGG:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Just FYI. 
 
MR. KELLOGG:  I understand that.  It doesn’t mean that it 
won’t make it more difficult for them to access them. 
 
The Helmholtz Center for Environmental Research found 90 
percent of plastic going into the sea comes from 10 rivers; 8 in Asia and 
Africa.  The legislation you’re considering will not help this issue, will not 
help the global issue. 
 
 
 
46 
 
And I would point to your neighbors to the East, in New York, 
frequently pursuing poor policy on this front, who are not even being this 
aggressive.  And Pennsylvania has also avoided this fate. 
 
So for all these reasons -- and I thank you very much for your 
time -- I urge you to reject this Bill; and we submit ATR’s strong opposition 
to Senate Bill 2776. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Kellogg. 
 
Jennifer Coffey, Association of New Jersey Environmental 
Commissions. 
J E N N I F E R   M.   C O F F E Y:  Good morning, Chairman, Senators. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to testify. 
 
My name is Jennifer Coffey, the Executive Director of ANJEC, 
the Association of New Jersey Environmental Commissions.  And our 
mission is to help municipalities make good decisions about the 
environment. 
 
We are thrilled to see this Bill here today.  It is a tremendous 
step forward in the right direction for New Jersey, for our country; and sets 
an example of the kind of leadership that we can show here in the Garden 
State. 
 
Aside from giving short testimony -- which I know you all 
appreciate immensely (laughter) -- I would like to address just a few of the 
comments that I heard earlier today. 
 
My organization is helping municipalities -- from north to 
south, from east to west -- pass bans, and fees, and work on stewardship and 
behavior changes for a variety of plastics.  This is a solvable problem; and 
many of you have heard me reference the World Economic Report before, 
 
 
 
47 
that says by 2050 -- so by the time my 9-year-old niece is my age  -- we will 
have more plastic than fish in our oceans unless we do something.  And this 
is a big something that we’re here talking about today. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right; and that’s by weight.  We’ll have 
more plastic-- 
 
MS. COFFEY:  By weight. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --by weight than the weight of all the fish 
in all the oceans. 
 
MS. COFFEY:  Absolutely, Senator. 
 
In California, they have done a really interesting approach in 
adopting a clean water policy that monitors microplastics and plastic 
pollution.  And so I would encourage you to consider adding to this Bill a 
suggestion or a direction, to the Department of Environmental Protection, 
to adopt a monitoring program for plastics so that we know what we’re 
doing is working; or if it’s not working in the future, and we need to take 
additional action.  And we’ll continue to support that and provide 
assistance on it. 
 
With regard to the paper fee that was discussed a little bit 
earlier, I would encourage -- given our research and our work with 
municipalities -- to keep the Bill as is, and to have the paper fee come into 
effect at the same time as the ban on plastics takes effect.  The reason for 
that being, behavior change is hard.  And my organization, and many of the 
environmental organizations here today, have been working on education 
for decades.  And we need some additional action to swing the pendulum.  
And so rather than moving people from plastic to paper and then to 
reusable, let’s try and do it all at once. 
 
 
 
48 
 
We’d also like to try to avoid swinging the pendulum from 
plastic to paper; and repeating what we saw happen in the 1960s.  There 
used to be an advertising slogan that went something like, “Save a tree; use 
a plastic bag.”  And so we don’t want to swing back in that direction; we 
want to move towards reusables. 
 
With regard to polystyrene, I’d like to talk about that for just a 
moment.   
 
In New York City, I was able to observe some hearings -- that 
were very similar to this one we’re having today -- with regard to a 
polystyrene ban; and those happened a little more than two years ago.  And 
New York City decided to move forward with a polystyrene ban for food 
service products, because they said, “There are all these problems happening 
in the environment; there are health problems happening with polystyrene. 
And so we want to move forward to eliminating that product in our 
society.” 
 
There was a lawsuit; and the lawsuit -- the end of the lawsuit 
essentially was industry and business saying “We can recycle this product,” 
and we’ve heard some of that testimony here today.  “We can do better 
with recycling this product.”  So the court said, “Okay, okay; we’ll put a 
moratorium on this ban, and we’ll see what you can do.  And you prove to 
us, over the next two years, that you can enhance recycling of this 
polystyrene product in New York City, where we have an abundance of it.  
We have an educated population ready to do the right thing.  And then 
we’ll go back and we’ll reevaluate.  And if you’ve done your job, then we’ll 
consider a permanent moratorium on the ban; and if not, we’re going to put 
 
 
 
49 
the ban back in place, and we’re going to get polystyrene out of our 
society.” 
 
And you heard, today, that polystyrene ban is going back into 
effect on January 1. 
 
So let’s learn from our neighbors; we’ve seen this show before. 
And so I would encourage you to keep the Bill intact as it is, because it’s 
good language, its strong language, it moves New Jersey in the right 
direction. 
 
The other issue with polystyrene is that when polystyrene 
connects with hot food -- either through drink, or soup, or hot fried foods--
So think about the school trays; a lot of our schools are using polystyrene 
trays.  They’re not using those hard plastic trays that many of us may 
remember.  You put hot fries on that, it’s starting to -- or hot soup -- you’re 
starting to dissolve that polystyrene.  Polystyrene includes styrene and 
benzene; these are neurotoxins and known carcinogens -- so cancer-causing 
elements.  We don’t need that in our food anymore; we have alternatives.  
We can do better. 
 
And so, just in summary, I want to thank you for your 
attention to this matter.  It is one of the most pressing environmental issues 
of our time.  We don’t need any new technology, we don’t need to cure 
anything, we don’t need to solve anything.  This is behavior change and 
system change.  So this is a very winnable environmental problem we can 
solve in our lifetime for the next generation. 
 
 
So I just sincerely thank you all for being here and taking 
action. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
 
 
50 
 
Frank Brill, the Association of New Jersey Recyclers. 
 
Mr. Brill, are you here? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF AUDIENCE:  (off mike)  He’s 
coming. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay; Mark Daniels, Novolex, opposed. 
M A R K   D A N I E L S:  Good afternoon, or good morning -- I’m not 
sure.  Is it afternoon yet? 
 
I’m Mark Daniels. 
 
Just by way of background, I was born in Newark and raised in 
Cedar Grove, New Jersey.  My grandparents built a couple of houses in 
Manasquan, just north of Lavallette in the 1940s and 1950s.  My parents 
bought a house in Ocean Beach Shores, again, just north of Lavallette, in 
the 1970s.  So I’m well-acquainted with the Jersey Shore, boated, and can 
testify to the fact that, at least with these two eyes, I have not seen, over 
decades, any plastic bags floating around in the Barnegat Bay or in the 
Atlantic Ocean where we live. 
 
I am the Senior Vice President of Sustainability of Novolex.  
And Novolex is the nation’s largest closed-loop recycler and manufacturer of 
plastic retail bags that are the subject of conversation today.  We are also 
the nation’s largest manufacturer of paper bags.  We know the life cycle 
analyses; we’ve studied this inside and out.  And to Dr. Cooper’s -- I’d be 
happy to send him the Clemson study, which goes all the way through to 
end-of-life cycle. 
 
Sustainability and environmental stewardship is key to our 
business.  You know, we take pride in our environmental stewardship; and 
what we do -- we spent tens of millions of dollars in putting recycling 
 
 
 
51 
facilities--  We’ve built two plastic bag and film recycling facilities -- one in 
Indiana and one in Wisconsin -- where we’re recycling over 50 million 
pounds of plastic bags and wraps.  I say wraps, because not only do we take 
plastics retail bags back, but we also take back dry cleaning bags, bread 
bags, and cereal bags -- all kinds of polyethylene products. 
 
We didn’t do this with the heavy hand of government; we did 
this voluntarily, as a business practice for environmental stewardship 
purposes. 
 
We are the inventor of the bag-to-bag program; in other words, 
the store take-back program that allows consumers to bring back these 
polyethylene films.  We pay for that material, so the grocers have an income 
stream.  We re-process that material, and make post-consumer resin, and 
then make new plastic bags out of the used one.  So again, we’re recycling 
more than 70 percent.  And this is considering the fact that -- you folks 
have been calling them single-use plastics; 75 percent of plastic bags are 
reused.  They may not be reused for bringing your groceries back, but they 
are reused for many home items.  If you take and deselect this product, 
something else is going to come in.  Instead of a plastic retail bag, it’s going 
to be a Glad trash bag for the kitchen catcher, or picking up after your pet 
waste, or cleaning up after the kitty litter.  There are all kinds of reuses for 
this product; 75 percent are reused.  That’s why we recycle all these other 
products. 
 
Other companies also buy this material, right?  So TREX 
composite lumber--  The boardwalks that were rebuilt after Sandy -- the 
devastating effects of Sandy -- those were all made from composite lumber 
made, in part, from the plastic retail bags that are brought back to stores, 
 
 
 
52 
and the stretch film and things like that.  So it’s very important to 
understand that the recycling infrastructure works.  So the reuse and 
recycling of single-use plastic bags is over 82 percent.  We’re proud of that, 
and we’re going to continue to work on that. 
 
In other paper bag manufacturing facilities -- we use 50 percent 
post-consumer products in all of our paper manufacturing.  We have two 
locations in New Jersey: one in Logan Township, and we have another 
location in Elizabeth, New Jersey -- a paper bag manufacturing facility in 
Elizabeth.  We spend, in this state, $13.3 million in wages; we have almost 
370 full-time employees.  And in just the past couple of years, we’ve 
invested $5.7 million in capital for these facilities.  We just closed on a 
$600,000 warehouse.   
 
We thought that New Jersey would be a good investment.  It’s 
central to our distribution of these products; it’s central to our very 
important customers; it’s important to families that we employ.  We also 
have--  As a matter of fact, I’m going to my board meeting tomorrow; and a 
lot of the decisions on what we’re going to do in New Jersey--  We have, in 
the approval process, about $70 million worth of capital projects for these 
two locations in New Jersey, to expand -- to add an additional 30 to 40 
jobs, to add extrusion lines, to add paper bag manufacturing capacities. 
 
I can tell you this.  We are really going to rethink whether we 
want our factories in New Jersey, or whether we want to invest.   
 
So I want you to consider not only these issues that you’re 
discussing--  Earlier there were many suggestions that plastic retail bags are 
at the highest part of the litter chain in New Jersey.  The recent study, 
funded by the Department of Environmental Protection of New Jersey -- 
 
 
 
53 
retail bags are 33 now -- eight-tenths of 1 percent.  So in other words, 99.2 
percent of other items are littered more frequently than a plastic -- branded 
plastic retail bag that you would get at Acme, or ShopRite, or at Walmart, 
or JCPenney. 
 
So please, try and put some science into this.  I would welcome 
any one of the staff here, or the Senators, to join us; to come over to Logan 
Township to witness our bag manufacturing facility, or Elizabeth, New 
Jersey, to see what our families are doing on environmental stewardship, to 
be able to provide for their families.  You deselect these products, put taxes 
on these products, it’s going to be extraordinarily expensive for the 
constituents of New Jersey.  Every time they shop, they’ll remember who, in 
fact, put together this kind of onerous legislation; and, you know, very 
painful and cost effective. 
 
 
The last thing I’ll say--  And everybody was talking about 
reusable bags.  Reusable bags -- they are made in China; they are made of 
non-woven polypropylene, the ones that you get for about $1; $1.50.  They 
are made from heavy feed stocks; they are non-recyclable, okay?  They are 
coming in -- you’re asking China manufacturing products to displace 
American manufacturing products.  And, you know, we are proud; we have 
50 manufacturing facilities throughout the United States.  We’re a proud 
manufacturer; we’re proud environmental stewards of this.  And I welcome 
you to visit with us. 
 
And if there are any questions, I’d be more than happy to 
answer any questions you may have. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
Any questions? (no response) 
 
 
 
54 
 
All right; if not, Frank Brill -- who is now present in the room -- 
the Association of New Jersey Recyclers. 
F R A N K   B R I L L:  Thank you Mr. Chairman. 
 
I’ll be very brief, because I made these points at your 
Committee hearing -- the Joint Committee hearing in Toms River. 
 
I represent ANJR, the Association of New Jersey Recyclers, 
whose members are all the county and municipal recycling programs, and 
also private industry that’s involved in recycling. 
 
You’ve 
heard 
the 
environmental 
arguments 
from 
the 
environmentalists; we won’t get into that.  Our main issue, as we brought 
up in Toms River, was that the plastic bags are the biggest problem we have 
with the machinery that is used to separate recyclable materials before 
they’re put into bales and sent to--  Well, they used to be sent to China, but 
wherever they’re being sent today.  They gum up the operation; and they 
not only keep -- prevent some of the recyclables from going into -- down the 
right chute and into the right bale, but they also, themselves, get trapped, 
and shredded, and put in the wrong bales. 
 
And once an inspector on the docks -- a Chinese inspector, or 
others -- if their agents see that, they disallow the whole bale, and it goes 
nowhere.  And it’s an additional cost for the counties and the processors as 
well. 
 
So it’s just a real practical problem.  It’s grown worse, of course, 
as there is more and more of these bags introduced into the commerce and 
into the way stream. 
 
 
What we’re trying to convince -- educate consumers to do--  
And it’s difficult, because consumers have heard different messages over the 
 
 
 
55 
years, depending on how the industry operated.  And there was one time 
when putting bags, plastic bags, grocery bags into recycling was okay.  It 
certainly is not now.  We’re trying to reeducate people not to put them in 
the recycling, but to put them in the garbage, and other materials as well. 
Because everything’s changed in terms of what can be sold in recycling. 
 
So we would -- that’s why we support this Bill. 
 
And thank you very much for your consideration. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Frank. 
 
Mary Ellen Peppard-- 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Mr. Chairman, I just have a quick 
question. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, I’m sorry. 
 
Frank, hold on. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Just a quick question. 
 
MR. BRILL:  Oh, I’m sorry. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  At this time, do any municipalities 
or counties offer curbside recycling of plastic bags? 
 
MR. BRILL:  If they do, I’m not sure of any.  There are some--  
Yes, there are some -- I think they’re primarily school groups and church 
groups.  And it’s a good alternative.  I’m glad you asked the question, 
because that’s one thing -- where these bags can be used.  Like the 
gentleman who testified right before me -- they are recyclable; and the 
grocery stores that take them in to recycle them -- a lot of them go to TREX 
and they have a good use.  They can be put to a good use.   
 
Right now, the industry -- private industry and municipalities, I 
think, are more interested in just getting them out of the recycling stream  
 
 
 
56 
and reeducating people.  But that’s certainly the kind of program that we 
would support, because they are recyclable and they can be put to a good 
use. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thanks. 
 
MR. BRILL:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
Mary Ellen Peppard, New Jersey Food Council. 
M A R Y   E L L E N   P E P P A R D:  Thank you, Chairman, and 
members of the Committee. 
 
Mary Ellen Peppard with the New Jersey Food Council. 
 
We appreciate the opportunity to continue this conversation 
that we’ve been having for a couple of months and, really, on and off for a 
couple of years now. 
 
A few comments on the Bill:  First, we really appreciate this 
statewide preemption in the Bill.  We do need a statewide solution to the 
local patchwork that our members are currently experiencing. 
 
Thank you for that; we really appreciate that. 
 
Regarding the fee:  Again, we are really supportive of the fact 
that the Bill does take into account the impact of paper.  The problem that 
we have with the way the Bill is structured is that when you have the fee, 
this would, of course, incentivize the use of reusable bags.  But our 
members, our food retailers, would still have to purchase a significant 
amount of additional paper bags.  Paper is much more expensive than the 
plastic bags.  It costs about 10 cents. 
 
So in order to recoup their costs, they would need to retain the 
entire 10 cents of the fee.  And I think someone else mentioned this -- so 
 
 
 
57 
this was done -- this is how it is done in California; they do retain the entire 
10 cents. 
 
The concern with Senator Bateman’s comment, or suggestion, 
before about, I believe, delaying the fee for a period of time would be that 
in that period of time our members would have to bear the cost of this. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So Mary Ellen, if the Bill was changed for 
the merchants to keep the 10 cents, would the Food Council be on the Bill? 
 
MS. PEPPARD:  Chairman, there are a couple of other points 
on the Bill.  I think that would-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So it doesn’t go far enough -- that would 
not get your support? 
 
MS. PEPPARD:  We would absolutely take that back to our 
members, and that would-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So the answer is, unknown at this point.  
Okay. 
 
MS. PEPPARD:  That would be a key component, but we 
would absolutely take that back to our members. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay; go ahead. 
 
MS. PEPPARD:  Thank you. 
 
I would--  And I’ll just add that our members already pay into 
the Litter Fund; it’s about $20 million.  So we do already pay for some of 
these programs. 
 
We do recommend the exemption of WIC and SNAP 
recipients, as well, from the Bill.  That was something that I believe 
someone else mentioned earlier. 
 
 
 
58 
 
We’re looking for some additional clarity on some of the 
exemptions.  Based on some conversations we had with your staff this 
morning, it appears that the intent was to potentially exempt newspaper 
bags and some of those waste bags -- the package bags -- that are sold in the 
stores.  So we would look for some clarity on that. 
 
We do appreciate, and we think it’s very important, that there 
are those food safety exemptions for the produce and the meat bags. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MS. PEPPARD:  And we would just ask, again, to get some 
clarity on some of the other exemptions; and maybe a hot soup add, for 
example. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Send in language, please. 
 
MS. PEPPARD:  Sure; absolutely.  Will do, Chairman; thank 
you. 
 
Regarding the polystyrene -- we would strongly recommend a 
permanent exemption -- not the limited time frame exemption -- but a 
permanent exemption for all raw meat, poultry, fish, produce, and eggs for 
food safety reasons.   
 
And we would also recommend that our members be allowed to 
continue to -- not to provide, but to sell the products -- the packaged 
products in their stores. 
 
At this time, our members are reporting that there is not a cost-
effective and suitable alternative for every single product.  And some other 
people have testified this morning -- it is a process of looking at these 
alternatives and evaluating different alternatives. 
 
 
 
59 
 
Regarding the straws:  We would appreciate a change to a 
straw-upon-request for every customer, as opposed to the medical necessity 
and the disability.  The problem there is that our store associates would be 
put in a position of having to potentially ask or make a medical necessity 
determination; and that’s a consumer experience issue, as well as a liability 
issue -- discrimination claims.  So that’s something that is very concerning 
to our members. 
 
And then we would also, again, ask that our members be 
allowed to sell the straws for at-home use in their aisles.  We think that, 
perhaps, there are some products and some situations that a complete ban 
would have unintended consequences.  For example, how would the issue of 
the juice boxes, Capri Sun, things like that -- how would they be addressed? 
If the straws were banned, we would assume that those types of products 
for sale would also be banned. 
 
And then we would also ask that the Committee just be 
mindful of the impact of a ban that is -- bans that are immediate, bans on 
these products, bans that are in a relatively short timeframe -- like, for 
example, the one-year timeframe -- the impact on the supply chain.  What 
our members are saying, in California, and then some of these other 
jurisdictions, is that there is a problem with demand -- not being able to 
meet that demand with the straws, the bags, and the polystyrene; and that 
when you have these -- you have to switch to the alternative products, and 
then not only is there a shortage, but there’s also a price increase. 
 
And then, finally, I would just say that our members are 
continuing to explore long-term alternatives to these various products.  
They are evaluating customer preference; they are evaluating affordability 
 
 
 
60 
and sustainability.  And so we would like to be a part of that conversation 
in terms of we wouldn’t want a particular type of bag, a particular 
definition, to be very narrowly construed to the point where it would 
preclude, potentially, a very economical and sustainable long-term 
alternative. 
 
We look forward to continuing the conversation; and we do 
appreciate the conversations the last couple of months. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you very much. 
 
Peter Blair, Clean Ocean Action, in favor. 
P E T E R   B L A I R,   Esq.:  I’m Peter Blair, the Policy Attorney for 
Clean Ocean Action. 
 
Our name has been mentioned, but I think it’s worthwhile to 
explain who we are. 
 
We are a broad-based coalition of 125 active boating, business, 
community, conservation, diving, environmental, fishing, religious, service, 
student, surfing, and women’s groups, all united to support the 
improvement and protection of our coastal waters. 
 
Clean Ocean Action would like to thank the sponsors of            
S-2776, Chairman Smith and Vice Chair Greenstein, for leading the effort 
to ban these harmful products. 
 
I’d also like to thank the entire Committee for the opportunity 
 to speak. 
 
First, I think it’s important to confess that I am new to this 
wonderful state; however, I already feel an immense sense of pride.  This 
pride stems from its role in environmental leadership.  For example, the 
 
 
 
61 
recent passing and signing into law of the nation’s strongest offshore oil 
ban, which had not only near-unanimous bipartisan support, but lead to 
efforts in California and Delaware.  We see this bill, S-2776, as setting a 
similar standard to follow. 
 
Clean Ocean Action is thrilled with the ban on single-use plastic 
straws, bags, and polystyrene foam.  We urge the swift passage of this 
legislation.  
 
Our existence is rooted in our mission to improve and protect 
the coastal waters off New Jersey.  We were founded in 1984, when the 
State had a much different reputation -- when we were the ocean-dumping 
capital of the world.  We are proud that we have overcome that hurdle; but 
we have a new hurdle to fight, and that is this plastic epidemic. 
 
While I am new to this state, Clean Ocean Action is not new to 
this issue.  Years of data from our biannual Beach Sweeps provides a 
snapshot of what is happening in our oceans.  It is evidence of the problems 
we are facing.  Since 1985 we have collected marine debris, including plastic 
debris, twice a year off the Jersey Shore beaches and in over 60 towns, from 
Perth Amboy to the Delaware Bay.  Our amazing volunteers have collected 
data on this.  According to our data, plastic debris has increased from 71 
percent in 1990, to 84 percent in 2017.  Last year, in just six hours; what 
was collected was horrifying.  In terms of plastic, our volunteers collected 
9,052 bags and 31,165 straws.  For straws, this is almost a 59 percent 
increase from the last comparable year. 
 
For food foam products, 928 containers, 21,117 pieces, and 
3,445 cups were collected.  Again, this was six hours; two, three-hour stints 
 
 
 
62 
in one year.  We did not get it all; there is more there now, there is more in 
the ocean. 
 
Moreover, recent history shows that plastic and foam products 
have consistently been at the top of the list of our items collected.  Our 
numbers have been questioned today, and people have mentioned that they 
have not seen plastic bags in the ocean.  I invite you to come to our Beach 
Sweep on October 20 and see for yourself the problem we are facing. 
 
Our Beach Sweep program arose out of necessity.  Nothing 
would make us happier than to end it, because our Beach Sweeps are no 
longer needed because our shores are pristine and free of these increasingly 
problematic items.  A good step will be the passage of this Bill and, 
therefore, we thank the Committee. 
 
We’ll take any questions. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
Matt Seaholm, American Progressive Bag Alliance. 
M A T T H E W   S E A H O L M:  (off mike) Opposed. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, I’m sorry -- opposed. (laughter) 
 
MR. SEAHOLM:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman; thank you, 
Senators. 
 
I’ll keep my remarks brief.  I’ve already provided the 
Committee with a lot of information; I’m sure you’ve read it all. 
 
But just a couple of things.  First, I represent the American 
Progressive Bag Alliance.  We are an association of plastic bags 
manufacturers and recyclers; our members recycle the products as well.  You 
heard one of them earlier -- Novolex being one of our most important 
members, with a presence here in New Jersey. 
 
 
 
63 
 
But a couple of things have been said today that I would love to 
respond to.  But the most important points that I think the Committee 
should take home with them--  First, speaking on the plastics bag issue that 
is part of this.  I really do want you to go back and read the New Jersey 
Clean Communities Council Report that was funded by the DEP; it came in 
July.  It highlights all of the issues regarding New Jersey litter; it really does 
a nice job.  It talks about the success, over the past decade or so, in reducing 
the amount of litter in New Jersey. 
 
But branded plastic retail bags -- those are the ones that are 
coming from grocery stores -- those are the ones that would be most 
impacted by this legislation -- make up 0.18 percent of litter.  That’s an 
incredibly small number; and what that comes down to, oftentimes, is 
coming from open trashcans, or it’s actually being used as a collection point 
for trash.  It’s being reused as a trash bag.  And it ends up next to a garbage 
can or something like that; or, perhaps, some other use like that. 
 
The other thing I wanted to mention is, from an environmental 
standpoint, every life cycle assessment that has been done, that looks from 
start to finish, of retail bags -- all of the options at the checkout -- there is 
no doubt that plastic retail bags are the most effective and most efficient 
thing to use at the checkout.  And this is not coming from us; the Clemson 
study was referenced earlier.  It’s coming from the EPA of Denmark; it’s 
coming from the Recycling Authority of Quebec.  And it really is an 
important point here that it seems like an easy fix, but there are a lot of 
other things to factor in.  And I just wanted to highlight those couple of 
points. 
 
 
 
64 
 
The last point I wanted to touch on is, really, the regressive 
nature of all of the policies; but also, the tax associated with it.  Who is 
most -- going to be most impacted by the banning of plastic bags and the 
tax on paper bags?  And it’s going to be those who can least afford it.  
Certainly a person making six figures is not going to really feel an impact, 
and they would be the ones who could certainly purchase a reusable bag 
and use it if they really wanted to, hopefully to a sufficient amount to offset 
the exchange for a plastic retail bag.  But what it’s really missing is -- the 
folks who have to walk six blocks from their corner convenience store, 
bodega, or any type of a supermarket -- or perhaps longer, in the rain--  
Those are the folks who, ultimately, get impacted most by these policies; 
and I just wanted to highlight that. 
 
But there’s been a lot of good conversation today; I hope that 
conversation continues.  You know, I think the gentleman from the 
Recycling Association in New Jersey made a very important point.  It’s clear 
that people want to recycle plastic bags, right?  That’s pretty darn clear.  
They’re just not sure how to do it at all times.  And that’s where the 
education on reuse and recycling really comes in; and I think that should be 
an important component of anything that this Committee ultimately 
decides to do. 
 
So thank you very much for your time.  I’d be happy to answer 
any questions that you might have. 
 
Otherwise, we’ll keep it rolling. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
The next witness is Doug O’Malley from Environment New 
Jersey. 
 
 
 
65 
D O U G   O ’ M A L L E Y:  Thank you, Chairman, and thank you 
members of the Committee. 
 
I know we are approaching lunch time; it’s always a dangerous 
position to be in, between you and the rest of this room and between lunch. 
(laughter) 
 
That being said, I wanted to thank the Chairman, and thank 
Senator Greenstein, for being the primary sponsors of this Bill.  This is 
groundbreaking legislation, and this is leadership. 
 
I also wanted to thank Governor Murphy for his veto of the 
plastic bag fee bill.  The language in that absolute veto discussed the need 
to move to reduce our use of single-use plastics overall. 
 
I also wanted to thank Dr. Keith Cooper, and the rest of the 
Rutgers and Princeton team that testified in August.  And, obviously, Dr. 
Cooper testified earlier this morning. 
 
That transcript really should be the Rosetta Stone, not only for 
this Committee, but for the entire Legislature.  This is not just about our 
ecosystem and environment -- although it certainly is -- it’s also about 
public health. 
 
And when we reference the importance of an outright ban on 
plastic bags, I think it’s important to note that this is about cultural change. 
Because right now, when you go to CVS, it’s almost like a game:  Can you 
tell the cashier not to put your couple of items into a plastic bag? 
 
We need culture change, and we’ve seen culture change before.  
In the 1980s, obviously, there was a move to do recycling; that was a big 
change.  Obviously our recycling rates in the state are not as much as we 
would like.  But blue bins are part of our culture. And there’s no reason that 
 
 
 
66 
New Jersey can’t be like California; the fifth-largest economy in the world 
passed an outright ban on plastic bags.  They have similar demographics, 
although a much higher population.  There’s no reason why we can’t follow 
their lead. 
 
And I wanted to echo the comments of Frank Brill, from the 
Association of New Jersey Recyclers.  Plastic bags are a scourge on our waste 
stream; and the reality is, a very small percentage of them get recycled.  So 
let’s not kid ourselves; the most effective way to save recycling in New 
Jersey is to ban plastic bags, not to assume that we’re suddenly going to 
bump the rates from 6 to 8 percent to 100 percent. 
 
I wanted to talk a little bit, too, on the polystyrene portion of 
the ban, because we’ve heard a lot of testimony already this morning on it. 
 
Here’s the reason why we need to ban polystyrene.  One, as we 
heard, New York is moving towards that ban.  But of those 165 million 
pieces of plastic contamination in the Raritan Bay, 40 percent of them are 
polystyrene.  And these are microscopic; they are essentially floating fish 
food.  They absorb toxic chemicals, and they bioaccumulate up the food 
chain.  So when we think of polystyrene, this is not just a minor problem. 
 
I also wanted to emphasize the research that links styrene as a 
carcinogen in animals, and a possible human carcinogen; and the 
transmission of styrene from polystyrene food containers into human body 
fat and into breast milk.  This is not only an environmental hazard; it is a 
public health hazard.  I think it’s critical that when we look at the concept 
of recycling, we look at what is occurring right now.  And I want to 
reference Noemi de la Puente; and Noemi ended up calling recyclers in 
Pennsylvania on polystyrene yesterday.  And they said they can only take 
 
 
 
67 
clean polystyrene.  So if you have food waste, that makes it a lot harder to 
recycle. 
 
So again, when we’re thinking about the move forward here, it 
needs to be comprehensive.  This is what this Bill does, and we are ecstatic 
to work with this Committee, and the Legislature, to make that happen. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
Thanks; any questions? (no response) 
 
Okay; next we have Paul Poe, Dart Container Corporation, 
opposed. 
P A U L   P O E:  Good day, honorable members of the Committee. 
 
Thank you for the time to be here today. 
 
I am Paul Poe; I am a Northeast Government Affairs and 
Environment Director for Dart Container Corporation.  We have 
manufacturing facilities around the world.  Our largest is in the neighboring 
state west of here, in Pennsylvania. 
 
And I’m also-- I want to just throw this out, as a New Jersey 
softball, that I am a proud graduate of Drew University.  I lived in the state 
for a couple of years, so I’m glad to be back. 
 
A couple of things that I want to talk about today--  You have 
my written testimony, and I have the new Bill.  And so I have a couple 
notes, and they may seem a little disjointed at times.  But I think 
everything is here that we need to talk about. 
 
And I’d like to have a conversation.  So at any time if you have 
a question, please stop me and ask. 
 
 
 
68 
 
Dart Container Corporation is one of the largest producers of 
food service products in the world.  We are here to respectfully oppose 
Senate Bill 2776, a ban on plastic bags, expanded polystyrene, and straws.  
 
And I’ll stop there; and I want to--  We’ve had similar bills in 
Rhode Island, and a couple of other states in the Northeast, that have 
coupled or tri-coupled bills like this.  And I would just posit from the outset 
that we consider that these three individual products are different; and one 
should not fail or rise upon the success or the lacking of another.  These 
three--  If you do not like EPS, but you like plastics bags, this Bill should 
not pass because one is better than the other in your mind.  They should be 
individual.  I would just posit that the coupling, the tri-coupling, of these 
three individual products is a heavy burden; and you’re going to make 
winners and losers.  And the worst one that you have in your mind may 
sink the best one that you have in your mind; and that shouldn’t be the 
case. 
 
And there are--  Dart makes over 2,000 different food service 
products.  We make paper, we make plastic, we make compostable, and 
foam products.  And foam products are plastic products.  And don’t let 
anyone misguide you; since we make paper hot cups -- that folks like 
Starbucks uses, and other places -- a paper cup, hot, is 10 percent plastic.  
It’s lined with polyethylene.  For it to be recycled it has to be energy 
intensive -- it has to be boiled, the plastic has to be pulled off, and then and 
only then can the paper be recycled. 
 
A foam cup, on the other hand--  And don’t get me wrong.  We 
make both of these products, and I’m not here to bad mouth any product 
on the market, because we make them all.  A foam cup, on the other hand-- 
 
 
 
69 
Yes; I mean, we do.  And a foam cup can be just--  It’s called a densifier.  You 
take it, you squish it down -- a foam cup is 90 percent air -- and you put it 
into a block; and we haul it back to Leola, Pennsylvania, we chop it up and 
make little beads, and then we reuse it.   
 
And the thing here -- as was noted before by some of the other 
folks -- there is county-wide recycling in Sussex County.  I know it’s in the 
far Northwest of the state; it’s a big county, but not that big of a 
population.  But there are two end-users here: Princeton Molding, and there 
is another in Springfield Township, that take these products back.  
Princeton Molding takes the recycled recovered foam and makes--  If you’ve 
ever been to a Target or a Walmart and bought a picture frame that’s not 
real wood; or if you bought the molding that goes around a house like this, 
that’s green that you paint -- that’s all recovered expanded polystyrene.  
There is an end-market, and it is used. 
 
And I want to correct one thing that was said earlier.  New 
York City has been a complicated issue.  There have been two 
determinations by Kathryn Garcia, the Secretary of Department of 
Sanitation.  The first one came out pro foam; it was upheld on appeal.  And 
then the City Council passed a second piece of legislation; and then that 
went to a second lawsuit.  Kathryn Garcia suddenly changed her mind on 
the logic.  And there were things that were in that decision: One, can it be 
recycled; is it going to cause a health issue; and is there a market?  And all 
three of those were met in the first case; in the second, somehow, she 
changed her position, and yesterday was the appeal.   
 
So there is no ban in New York City.  It is scheduled to go into 
effect January 1; but the second case that was appealed was heard 
 
 
 
70 
yesterday, just to be clear.  Because I don’t want anyone to think other 
people have said New York City has a ban.  They don’t yet.  It’s on appeal, 
and it’s scheduled for January 1; but we’ll have a decision before that date. 
 
Dart has been doing foam recycling since 1990.  We have drop-
off points at every one of our facilities, and we take back whatever is 
recovered here in New Jersey, and Maryland, and Pennsylvania to our Leola 
facility.  It’s chopped up; washed, if need be.  
 
 So people have talked a lot about dirty foam.  If it has oil on it, 
it needs to be washed.  But if you have a paper pizza box that has oil on it, 
that’s contaminated and that pizza box cannot be recycled.  And like I said 
before, a paper hot cup cannot be recycled until that 10 percent 
polyethylene is stripped off it. 
 
So those are just some of the big issues there. 
 
As far as economic impact, we have faced--  Big businesses 
across the country, as well as, I’m sure you’re aware, Dunkin’ Donuts -- 
which is now just Dunkin’, since they dropped Donuts yesterday -- they said 
they won’t use foam cups anymore.  And I’ve been asked before, “How do 
you feel about that?”  And I say, “It’s fine; it’s a business decision that each 
and every business needs to make.”  And if you’re a small business, a mom-
and-pop, if you’re a nonprofit, if you’re the State-run prison, if you’re a 
hospital, and the foam is the product that you need to keep you in business, 
you should be able to buy it.  And it is recyclable, it is recovered, it is cost-
effective.  And, you know, even organ transplants -- when you get a new 
liver or a heart, what do you think they transport those organs in?  They are 
foam containers that go out to hospitals. 
 
 
 
71 
 
So -- and I have one other question that I generally like to ask 
the legislative bodies that have bills like these.  So let’s talk about what -- 
not just what I have to say, but what you have to say and what is your 
intent.  Is this a health issue, a litter issue, a recyclable issue?  And we can 
talk all about those.   
 
And a lot of people before me today have mentioned styrene; 
and our products are polystyrene.  So styrene is a monomer, C8H8; I’m a 
chemical engineer, by the way.  And on the other end, when you have a 
monomer, it’s a long chain.  They break one, and they make it longer. 
 
Styrene is a liquid; polystyrene is a solid.  If you try to put 
sodium in water by itself, it would explode.  You put it with chlorine, you 
make salt.  It’s the same kind of chemical process; they are totally different.  
One is a monomer, one is a polymer.  They have different chemical 
attributes.  There is scientific research done on styrene.  And a couple of 
folks before me, today, have mentioned breast milk, and styrene in breast 
milk.  If you truly want to take styrene out of the environment -- styrene is 
naturally occurring.  There’s more styrene in the coffee than in this foam 
cup. 
 
Now, most styrene naturally occurring is cinnamon, beer, beef  
-- and you can go down the list.  So if you want to take all the styrene that 
could possibly be in breast milk, you need to ban beer, beef, coffee, 
cinnamon, and strawberries.  It’s naturally occurring; and you can look it 
up.  I can provide that information, if you need further information.  It is 
not coming from a foam food service container or a foam cup.  It is 
naturally occurring in the food that we eat and the drinks that we drink. 
 
 
 
72 
 
And someone had mentioned earlier life cycle analyses.  When 
you make a foam cup and a paper cup -- a foam cup is 90 to 95 percent air 
and 5 percent natural product -- natural resources.  So a paper cup, on the 
other hand, is all natural resources.  So when you make a product -- natural 
greenhouse gases -- we are, as a foam product, 2.5 times less than a paper 
product.  You had to cut down the tree, you have to mill it, you have to boil 
it, you have to make pulp.  And so the greenhouse gasses are considerably 
more. 
 
The water use is 2.5 times more; transportation costs are more.  
And at the end of the life -- and this is an important issue that I want to 
talk about--  Because if you ban foam products, you’re going to have to go 
to an alternative product.  And those alternative products in other states -- 
and I just got the new Bill today -- so an alternative product, they tend to 
be either the mandated recyclable or compostable.  And we’ve already 
talked about a paper product that needs to be recycled has to be boiled, and 
the energy required, and to make new paper products out of that. 
 
Let’s talk about compostable.  Most compostable facilities -- 
and there are none in Maryland, there are none in Pennsylvania, and I’m 
not for sure about New Jersey -- but most compostable facilities are food 
waste and yard waste.  Compostable food service takes a higher temperature 
and a longer time to compost.  So if you’re going to get rid of a penny 
product and replace it with a 10-cent product, that you can’t handle as a 
government, you’re requiring your people to pay more for a product, or a 
service, or a food, or a soda, at the beginning.  So it goes up from 1 cent to 
10 cents, and it’s passed along to consumers.   
 
 
 
73 
 
But let’s think about the end of the life.  If you don’t compost 
it, you’re going to have to landfill it or burn it.  And it’s 2.5 times more by 
weight, like I said, and by volume.  So you’re tipping fees are going to go 
up.  So there’s a double whammy on economic costs.  So it’s -- the cost to 
the consumer goes up; and the cost to the government goes up, if you don’t 
compost it. 
 
And I just want to put that out there because, if you want to 
get rid of product and replace it with a new product, as a consumer, or 
resident of the state, as a voter -- if I’m going to have to use a product that 
you asked me to use, I expect you to be able get rid of it properly at the end 
of its life so it doesn’t cost my government taxes more.  If you’re going to  
just landfill it or burn it, that’s costing me at the front end and the back 
end, because I’m a taxpayer.   
 
I’m just putting that out there; and I think it’s something that’s 
worth considering. 
 
I’ll wrap up quickly here. 
 
Dart is a big--  We have retail sales here; we don’t have 
manufacturing.  We do in Maryland and Pennsylvania, two of your 
bordering states.  But we distribute heavily here.   
 
 
I’ve already hit on New York City; and polystyrene versus 
styrene; and styrene is naturally occurring. 
 
The last thing I want to hit on is the recycling that’s going on 
here in New Jersey; and I’ll stop. 
 
As was noted before, Sussex County has instituted foam 
recycling.  They’ve submitted a letter; and so has Princeton Molding, a 
company that takes the recovered fiber and makes the molding, that 
 
 
 
74 
employs people in Princeton and Springfield Township.  But Sussex 
County, in their letter, they will say that they have saved, with their 
recycling program of expanded polystyrene from municipal solid waste, 
$17,000 a year, so far.  That’s just to begin. 
 
On that -- I know I’ve talked a lot; my mother tells me I do too 
much.  And I’ll take any questions that you have, and be happy to follow up 
if you have any needs or questions. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments; they are 
most appreciated. 
 
Maggie Leppert; Maggie, you have not identified yourself with 
any group or organization. 
 
Who are you with? 
M A G G I E   L E P P E R T:  (off mike)  So I’m with several 
organizations; but I didn’t put one down, because I wanted to speak on 
behalf of the-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Come on and sit. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  I’m sorry; okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So who are the several organizations? 
 
MS, LEPPERT:  So I work for the New Jersey Association of 
Centers for Independent Living.  So one of the things that -- I just didn’t 
put an organization, because I wanted to emphasize that I’m here on behalf 
of the entire disability community, not a specific part of it-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  --or a specific organization; that I’m talking on 
behalf of the one out of four Americans who live with a disability in this 
country. 
 
 
 
75 
 
So I want to talk about -- not plastic bags, not Styrofoam.  I 
want to specifically talk about plastic straws, single-use plastics straws. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  I know that there is a disability medical 
exemption-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Exemption; right. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  --but I’m here to tell you that this is not 
enough; that is not acceptable to our community. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What do you want? 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  I’m going to explain. 
 
So, currently, there are no alternatives for single-use plastic 
straws that are safe for people with limited muscle control.  And until 
alternatives exist, there can be no -- of any kind -- straw ban that would be 
acceptable to the disability community. 
 
I’ll talk a little bit about why that medical exemption is a 
problem. 
 
First, it puts the burden on the person with a disability to 
disclose.  And if you do not have a disability, it can be hard to understand 
this.  But as someone who lives with a disability, I live in constant fear of 
violence, of harassment that I will receive if I do choose to disclose.  It is a 
very scary process to disclose, as we face discrimination and harassment on 
a daily basis.   
 
The second reason is that now you’re putting the judgement in 
the hands of the people -- as someone mentioned earlier -- of the people 
who are working at these stores.  I want to ask you, if you look at me, can 
you tell that I have a disability?  Can you tell that I live with severe chronic 
 
 
 
76 
pain?  Can you tell that, right now, my heart is racing at about two times 
what is considered the healthy rate, due to a chronic heart condition? 
 
If you can’t tell, why should 17-year-old Johnnie, who works at 
Starbucks, be able to tell? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but why-- You know, all the person 
has to say is, “I want a plastic straw for a medical reason,” and that’s it.  
Nobody makes a determination. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  I understand that. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s automatic. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  And I understand the intent behind that; but 
I’m talking about the lived experiences -- that that’s not what’s happened.  
When we say, “I need it for a medical exemption,” then people 
automatically question.  I don’t care if the law says that they can’t; this is 
how it works.  I’m regularly questioned and harassed on the street; on the 
train for using my disability parking placard-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So let’s do this.  Seattle-- 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  Seattle has had issues with that. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That’s what we need to find out about. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  Yes; I can talk to you.  I have contacts in 
Seattle-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes? 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  --disability contacts; and all of them will tell 
you that it is not working there -- the disability exemption.  People are 
suffering very badly. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay; all right, I got you. 
 
And we want to do it right.  So I want you to contact Kate-- 
 
 
 
77 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --and the two of you get on a conference 
call with the people from Seattle. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  Yes, okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Let’s find out what the issues are, and 
we’ll get them solved, all right? 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  Okay; because I just want to emphasize that 
plastic straws make up 0.03 percent of plastic waste, while fishing nets 
make up 46 percent.  So I don’t understand why when we’ve seen the 
disastrous effects of these bills in Santa Barbara, in Seattle--  Then we live 
in a state that has the fourth-highest institutionalization rate of people with 
disabilities.  People with disabilities are already living in poverty, are already 
pushed out of public spaces-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’re not fighting with you. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You know what?  You’re going to snatch 
defeat from the jaws of victory. (laughter) 
 
We’re going to find a way to make this work. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Give us a call, and let’s find out what we 
can do to make it work. 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right? 
 
MS. LEPPERT:  Okay; thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’re easy. (laughter) 
 
 
 
78 
 
All right; Henry Gajda, New Jersey League of Conversation 
Voters, in favor. 
H E N R Y   G A J D A:  Hi; Henry Gajda, the New Jersey League of 
Conservation Voters. 
 
I’ll keep these comments fairly brief. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Please. 
 
MR. GAJDA:  Thank you to Chairman Smith and the 
Committee for hearing this Bill.  New Jersey LCV is strongly supportive of 
S-2776; this Bill would showcase New Jersey’s commitment to addressing 
plastic pollution, and would be the most comprehensive bill in the country 
to do so. 
 
More specifically, we are thrilled to see that these strong actions 
are being taken, specifically the 10 cent fee on paper bags.  As we know, 
paper bags are incredibly resource-intensive; over 14 million trees are cut 
down each year to make the 10 billion paper bags that are used in the U.S. 
annually. 
 
More specifically, over 1,300 acres of trees are cut down to 
satiate our paper bag need in New Jersey alone.  And for the football fans 
here, that translates to over 1,049 football fields of trees that are cleared, 
each year, for paper bags used just for our own consumption. 
 
With an important ban on plastics bags, there could be more 
paper bags used, ultimately driving up deforestation to an even higher 
number.  Therefore, placing a fee on paper bags is essential to encourage the 
behavioral change we want and need to see in New Jersey, where we all 
ultimately do bring our reusable bags to the store. 
 
 
 
79 
 
So while we strongly support this Bill, we also do have one 
recommendation that would really help strengthen it. 
 
New Jersey LCV strongly recommends that the ban on 
polystyrene be extended to being included in our public schools and higher 
education institutions.  Children shouldn’t be taught that school lunches 
belong on these polystyrene trays.  Banning this material will reduce 
childhood exposure to harmful contaminates and potentially health 
consequences, both in schools and out. 
 
New Jersey would not be alone, either.  There’s a plethora of 
paradigms that we can look to for success.  Seven major cities -- including 
Dallas, New York City, Fort Lauderdale, and Chicago, to name a few -- have 
partnered together to eliminate polystyrene from their schools. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  And by the way, you do know we 
have a bill that does this. 
 
MR. GAJDA:  Yes, I know. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s already come out of Committee. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  That’s my Bill. 
 
MR. GAJDA:  Yes, we’ve actually reached out to the sponsors. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You’re reaching out to the sponsor right 
now. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Well, it passed the Senate.  It’s in the 
Assembly. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So it’s over on the Assembly side. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  We need your help in the Assembly. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
 
 
80 
 
MR. GAJDA:  Yes, we’ve reached out to the Assembly sponsors 
as well. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Okay, good. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Terrific. 
 
MR. GAJDA:  But yes, so this is important, and a significant 
first step in the right direction to address plastic pollution, reduce our waste 
stream, and limit land, water, and air pollution within and surrounding our 
state, and protect the health of our children. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you very much. 
 
Mike Egenton, New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce; who is 
celebrating his what? 
M I C H A E L   A.   E G E N T O N:  Twenty five years. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  You’re just a kid, compared to 47. 
(laughter) 
 
MR. EGENTON:  And you know, in that 25 years, I’m always 
very respectful of the time; and I know you have a voting session.  So I 
won’t read my testimony. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, no; yes. 
 
MR. EGENTON:  I’ll tell you, Chairman, I concur-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We wouldn’t allow you to read it anyway. 
(laughter) 
 
MR. EGENTON:  I know you wouldn’t. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But go ahead; tell-- 
 
MR. EGENTON:  No, no, no, no. 
 
 
 
81 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --what amendments are you seeking?  Tell 
us. 
 
MR. EGENTON:  I will just say that we spoke at your summer 
hearing.  I concur with the remarks that Dennis Hart provided today, and 
our manufacturers. 
 
One thing I would say before the members here is, I always look 
everything in the bigger picture.  You’re all going to be voting on a Bill 
today -- and it’s probably going to pass -- that’s going to raise an enormous 
amount of taxes on the business community; a Corporate Business Tax Bill.  
That has impact; as you heard from the manufacturers here today, we want 
to keep those jobs and keep those employers here, keep the manufactures 
here.  
 
I recognize, and appreciate, and respect the environmental 
concerns.  I would even dare say there seems to be a lot of more challenges, 
Chairman, with the added containers and straws that you heard here today. 
As you’ve done in the past sometimes, maybe separating the bills and 
dealing with the plastic bag bill again in tandem, you know, as you try to 
get more information and see if there are alternatives with regard to 
containers. 
 
You’ve heard from the folks in the Food Council, retail 
industry.  I’m sure the restaurant associations have concerns.  Again, these 
are employers. We need to make sure that if you’re going to go this 
pathway, you understand not only the environmental implications but, for 
sure, the economic consequences that come along with it. 
 
So that’s, sort of, and in a very quick nutshell--  I just, you 
know -- we’d like to continue to have, you know, the dialogue, and work 
 
 
 
82 
with the various people who you’ve heard from here today.  But we are 
greatly concerned that, you know, what is this impacting?  And again, we 
don’t want to lose those manufacturers, those jobs.  And especially, 
knowing full well, with all the budgets that I’ve been dealing with for a 
number a years, what kind of fiscal outlook we’re looking at in the next few 
budgets, and the challenges that we have there. 
 
Again, I would ask you -- don’t look at this issue in isolation; 
but look at it in tandem in the various bills that you’re voting on later 
today, and in the next several months. 
 
That’s it, Chairman. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Mike, thank you for your comments. 
 
MR. EGENTON:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Bill Kibler, Raritan Headwaters. 
 
Bill. 
 
MR. KIBLER:  Mr. Chairman, Senators, thank you again. 
 
Jeff’s out of the room.  Good; this is a good time to do this. 
 
I’m an environmentalist.  I feel obliged to point out that 
because I’m about to say two things you’ll never hear out of Jeff Tittel’s 
mouth.  One, McDonalds’s is awesome; more on that later. (laughter) And 
two, I love plastic.  Let me explain to you what I mean. 
 
If we’re ever going to get serious about getting lead out of 
people’s drinking water, the only way to do it is to replace the plumbing 
in their homes.  And the way we do that is PVC.  I don’t hate plastic as 
an environmentalist.  But there are two kinds of plastic, and I am very 
glad Senator Thompson is no longer on this Committee; he would realize 
how weak my organic chemistry is to say there are only two kinds of 
 
 
 
83 
plastic.  But in my universe, there are only two kinds of plastic.  There’s 
the plastic that has more benefit than harm; and there’s the plastic that 
has more harm than benefit.  PVC pipe falls into the former category; the 
single-use consumer plastics fall into the latter category, and they need to 
go. 
 
We support the Bill; I think it’s an excellent way to go.  I 
would suggest that you please keep at it. 
 
Senator Smith, you pointed out just how large this issue is on 
a global scale -- that we’re dealing with an issue, on a global scale, 
probably as large as the climate issue.   
 
I don’t know much about the Sargasso Sea.  If you read 
articles about this issue you’ll hear about the giant island of trash, that 
Senator Smith was talking about, out in the middle of the Atlantic that’s 
in the Sargasso Sea.  I know two things about the Sargasso Sea:  One, all 
the eels that live in my Watershed -- that’s where they go to reproduce, 
which is kind of cool.  And number two, it’s the only sea in the world with 
no land boundaries.  I’ve never been to the Sargasso Sea; the probability 
of me ever going there is about that big (indicates).  It would be a great 
place to see, but it’s just not likely to happen. 
 
Let me tell you about a place I have been -- in fact, as recently 
as Tuesday -- that’s the Spruce Run Reservoir.  Round Valley Reservoir, 
the largest drinking water reservoir in our state, and Spruce Run, the 
third-largest reservoir in our state, happen to reside in my Watershed, I’m 
happy to say.  And we pull plastic trash out of those reservoirs every year. 
 
  I talked to you earlier -- and I won’t repeat myself -- on our 
annual stream clean up.  But we pull huge volumes of trash out of Spruce 
 
 
 
84 
Run and Mulhockaway Creek, which feed the Spruce Run Reservoir.  If 
you’re not familiar with the Reservoir plumbing -- I won’t get into it in 
real detail, except to say nobody in the State of New Jersey gets their 
drinking water from Round Valley or Spruce Run reservoirs.  The water 
comes out of the reservoirs, gets discharged into the South Branch of the 
Raritan River, goes down the South Branch to the confluence with the 
North Branch, and the water companies actually pull their water out  
downstream of the confluence.   
 
Any trash -- any trash that winds up in the South Branch or 
the North Branch, anywhere in my Watershed, is going to eventually find 
its way into the drinking water of 1.5 million in the State of New Jersey.  
Your constituents, Senator Smith; your constituents, Senator Bateman; 
the people who live in my community -- this is their drinking water that 
I’m talking about. 
 
I realize that this is a global issue; but it’s also a very local 
issue, and it’s one that we actually can do something about here in New 
Jersey.  And this Bill is an excellent way to do that, so I applaud that. 
 
One of the advantages of being a grassroots organization, like 
we are, is that we spend a lot of time just talking to folks on the street; 
the people out there in our neighborhood.  I spend a lot of time doing 
outreach, trying to talk to people about NRD settlements, TMDLs, 
stormwater issues.  Very challenging issues to talk to the public about, 
because they tend to be a little esoteric.   
 
Plastic waste -- they get it, absolutely.  And let me tell you 
something that I know from my communities.  I don’t care if you live in a 
rural community, a suburban community, or an inner city community, 
 
 
 
85 
nobody wants to live in a trash heap.  I find it bothersome, sometimes, 
when folks talk about a statute like this as being regressive, because I’ve 
never met anyone in an underserved community who wanted to have their 
community dumped on.  They deserve clean water and they deserve clean 
neighborhoods, just like everybody else. 
 
So McDonald’s -- I mentioned McDonald’s earlier.  Back in the 
early 1990s, maybe it was the late 1980s -- I don’t remember precisely -- 
but McDonald’s did away with Styrofoam food containers in their business; 
did away with them entirely.  I realize that McDonald’s has an advantage of 
scale; but they proved that it can be done.  And I’ve heard concerns 
expressed about quality and cost; as far as I can tell, McDonald’s food is 
still incredibly cheap and -- how do I put it? -- it doesn’t seem to have 
affected the quality of the product any. (laughter)  I’ll just leave it at that. 
 
I don’t really know where to go with the straw issue, to be 
honest.  I’m glad it’s being addressed, in terms of the handicapped 
community.  I do have an advantage; when I was a kid growing up we had 
wax-coated paper straws.  So if anyone is incapable of mastering a wax-
coated paper straw, as a public service I’ll be happy to do a YouTube video.  
Those paper straws have no moving parts, so I’m pretty sure I could master 
that.  We’ll make it work. 
 
So that was it.  I wanted to thank the Committee for getting 
this moving; and I would appreciate if you all would vote for it, and I 
certainly would appreciate if the entire Senate would get behind this Bill. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Bill. 
 
 
 
86 
 
Dale 
Florio, 
New 
Jersey 
Restaurant 
and 
Hospitality 
Association. 
D A L E   F L O R I O:   Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
So on behalf on the New Jersey Restaurant and Hospitality 
Association, we just have a specific ask I wanted to get on the record, 
recognizing that it may not be added today. 
 
 And quite frankly, the woman who spoke on behalf of the 
disability community actually touched on it. 
 
If you look at Section 4b -- if you put a period after plastic straw 
and deleted due to a disability or medical condition, we think that’s an 
appropriate place to put that period, principally because of -- it is difficult 
for a server-- And you wouldn’t want to ask a server to look at somebody 
and make an assessment whether or not their request for a straw made 
sense. 
 
But you also have people who ask for straws because they don’t 
want to drink out of a glass.  If you are at a fine dining-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, yes, yes.  But what about Bill’s last 
comment? 
 
MR. FLORIO:  Pardon? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Why not paper straws; what’s the 
problem with the paper straw? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF COMMITTEE:  Or metal-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What’s that? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF COMMITTEE:  Or metal. 
 
 
 
87 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And by the way, you go for a cocktail at 
Catherine Lombardi’s.  They switched to metal straws months ago, and 
they’re not having any problem with it. 
 
MR. FLORIO:  Well, I think -- you know, we can spend 
another four hours, I think, talking about the ability of a paper straw to 
meet somebody’s needs. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, you know, we’re going to find out.  
We’re calling Seattle, and we’re going to find out if the paper straw will 
solve the problem.  Which means you can still ban the plastic straws; but 
you tell everybody in the world, “Just use a paper straw.”  And then 
anybody can have a straw; there’s no problem with that.  We can dispose of 
them; they’re not going to stay in the environment for 10,000 years. 
 
But we’re going to find out. 
 
MR. FLORIO:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We are looking at that issue seriously.  
 
MR. FLORIO:  We’ll look forward to coming back and 
discussing--  We just wouldn’t want to put servers-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  See you in the Appropriations 
Committee. 
 
MR. FLORIO:  --in those situations. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  Yes, we don’t want them making 
those decisions either.  We want to take care of the disability community; 
no questions. 
 
MR. FLORIO:  Well, this is, again, somebody who just, from a 
germ standpoint, may not want to drink out of a--  I’m talking about 
someday who drinks out of a glass, right? 
 
 
 
88 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
MR. FLORIO:  If you’re at a fine dining place where, maybe, 
they’re serving soda or club soda-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And again, why wouldn’t a paper straw 
work for somebody who doesn’t want to drink out of a glass? 
 
MR. FLORIO:  Well, we’re going to find that out, I guess -- 
right?  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
MR. FLORIO:  How they did it in Seattle.  So we’ll be there for 
that. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay, all right.  It’s a research project for 
both of us. 
 
MR. FLORIO:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, sir. 
 
MR. FLORIO:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Brain Hackett, Humane Society of New 
Jersey, in favor. 
B R I A N   H A C K E T T:  Thank you, Senator, and Committee. 
 
I know you’ve entertained quite a long time of testimony; and I 
appreciate that, Mr. Chairman, your willingness to listen. 
 
Recognizing that, I’ll be very brief.  But I also want to recognize 
that in the two-and-a-half hours of comments, there’s been very little 
discussion about the atrocious effects that these single-use plastics have on 
animals. 
 
And Mr. Chairman, I would add to your comment that not 
only is this a public health and environmental issue, it’s an animal 
 
 
 
89 
protection issue.  And we know how much animals are intertwined with the 
environment, and vice versa. 
 
So I just want to mention a couple of key points for the record 
here. 
 
The World Economic Forum estimates that the equivalent of 
one garbage truck of plastic is poured into the ocean every minute.  That is 
staggering.  One of the people who testified earlier mentioned something 
about Costa Rica, and it made me remember when I went to Costa Rica.  
We went to one of the most, if not the most remote national park in Central 
America on the Pacific Rim.  You either had to hike in from the north, or 
you had to boat in, for three hours, in the mangroves, from the Pacific.  
 
And what did we see, besides wildlife, in that park?  Plastics, 
single-use plastic everywhere.  It was disgusting, it was abhorrent, and it 
truly shows the real impact, worldwide; not just on your own beaches. 
 
Scientists estimate that 90 percent of all sea birds alive today 
have ingested plastic during their life; and marine litter harms well over 600 
species.  So this is a public health issue; some people eat these fish that eat 
all of this plastic in the ocean -- public health issue. 
 
It is heartbreaking to see pictures of sea birds feeding their little 
babies in the nest pieces of plastic bags and pieces of single-use plastic.  
They have no idea.  And meanwhile, they’re setting themselves up for a 
painful, painful, death.  We see necropsies being done on all sorts of 
animals that wash up on shores; they have hundreds of pounds, sometimes, 
in larger animals, of plastic in their digestive tracts.  It’s really, really 
atrocious. 
 
 
 
90 
 
I would like to make one comment about businesses already 
doing this.  Aldi is a grocery chain that I shop at.  I work for a nonprofit; I 
need low-cost groceries. (laughter)  And they’re oftentimes in many diverse 
communities; some economically challenged communities.  They already 
have policies; for example, if you do not bring a reusable bag, then you pay 
for one of their paper bags.  That’s a business here in New Jersey already 
doing it; and no matter where they are, the traffic in their stores is 
unbelievable.  And everybody knows, regardless of the community, 
regardless of whether one has a disability or not, regardless of all these other 
things you’ve heard, people bring reusable bags or people pay for the paper 
bags. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  By the way, what do they charge for the 
paper bags? 
 
MR. HACKETT:  Chairman, I think it’s 5 or 10 cents. 
 
MR. TITTEL:  It’s 10 cents. 
 
MR. HACKETT:  Ten cents?  I always bring my reusable bags, 
so-- 
 
Thank you, Jeff. 
 
So that being said, it’s really painful to watch the real effect 
that this single-use plastic epidemic has on our sea life.  And we’ve heard 
some speakers talk about statistics as to, “Well, it’s just a small percent here 
or there.”  But if that’s -- let’s say that’s the case and those statistics are 
true.  If that tiny amount, according to that, is having this type of 
detrimental impact on marine life and the environment that it is already 
having, what would happen it was doubled?  Which is very possible; it 
 
 
 
91 
could be doubled, if these Bills don’t go through, in New Jersey and in other 
places. 
 
So I hope I’ve given the animals -- all of them that have died in 
vain because of single-use plastics -- I hope I have done them some justice, 
and I appreciate your time.  And I would urge support for this Bill. 
 
And thank you and God bless you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Brian. 
 
Chrissy Buteas, New Jersey Business and Industry, seeking 
amendments. 
C H R I S T I N E   B U T E A S:   Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, and 
members of the Committee. 
 
My name is Chrissy Buteas; I’m with the New Jersey Business 
and Industry Association. 
 
 
I do echo a lot of the comments that were made by my 
colleagues who had concerns with the legislation.  However, we would like 
to seek amendments and look forward to working with the Chairman on 
seeking those. 
 
I do want to mention, though -- also as some of my colleagues 
pointed out -- that when we’re looking at the impact on business, we cannot 
take one individual policy and evaluate it alone.  In fact, we have to look at 
things from the totality.  And as was mentioned prior, our manufacturers 
and corporations are going to be seeing another tax increase today if 
legislation were to pass.  And the competitiveness and affordability factors 
really come into play when businesses are looking to stay here.  And I think 
that was alluded to earlier by some our manufacturers. 
 
 
 
92 
 
So when we’re looking at this piece of legislation, we do want to 
keep in mind what other states are doing, what is the impact from a global 
environment as well.  And then, keep in mind how many businesses are 
already utilizing plastics and polystyrene here in the State of New Jersey.  
How many jobs are currently here in the State of New Jersey?  And it was 
mentioned by the Professor earlier this morning, actually, that business 
really does have a key role to play in this.   
 
And so when we’re talking about these types of products, they 
do have real positive impacts on our day-to-day life.  And we certainly do 
acknowledge the environmental concerns that were raised.  And once you 
work with folks to make sure that we are recycling all of these products--  I 
think we talked a lot about today how these products are able to be 
recycled, and that it is a human behavior issue.  We need to make sure that 
we are recycling plastic bags, etc. 
 
So when we’re looking at some of the specifics in the 
legislation, some of the things that we would like to be kept in mind, you 
know, are the plastic straws -- are they available upon request?  Can we look 
at multiple years for phasing in something of this nature?  Looking at 
making sure that the safety concerns are kept intact, as was illustrated by 
the Food Council.  I mean, these products do serve a purpose, and we 
certainly don’t want to just get rid of them and not have an alternative to 
go to.  Because if there is an alternative, we do know that that alternative is 
more expensive and that it will put another cost on our businesses. 
 
So see, these are some of the things that our members have 
concerns with.  I look forward to working with the Chairman on them.  And 
again, we just want to make sure that New Jersey remains competitive, that 
 
 
 
93 
our manufactures and our businesses stay here, and that we also protect all 
the jobs that are here in New Jersey. 
 
So thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Chrissy, thank you for your comments. 
 
MS. BUTEAS:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Drew Tompkins, New Jersey Audubon. 
 
MR. GAJDA:  (off mike)  Drew has stepped out, but he wanted 
me to say-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Come to the microphone and say it.  
 
Identify yourself, and who you’re speaking on behalf of. 
 
MR. GAJDA:  Sure. 
 
 
My name is Henry Gajda; and Drew Tompkins asked me to 
say, “New Jersey Audubon is supportive of the amendments, and looks 
forward to working with the sponsors to make the best enforceable Bill 
possible.” 
 
That’s it. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
Sal Risalvato, New Jersey Gasoline Convenience Store 
Association (sic). 
 
Mr. Risalvato. 
S A L   R I S A L V A T O:  You got it correct. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good. 
 
MR. RISALVATO:  Thank you. 
 
Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, thank you very 
much for allowing me the opportunity to share the thoughts of my members 
with you. 
 
 
 
94 
 
And thank you for tackling a very difficult issue. 
 
There is nobody in my organization -- and I hope because of 
my influence -- that thinks that the issue is not a real issue.  I personally 
believe that it is; I have tried to instill that in my members.  I believe that I 
have, because I have a number of members who have been very active, over 
the past few years, doing things like making sure that there is proper 
recycling in their convenience stores for plastic bags and other recyclable 
materials.  
 
I have one very aggressive member who did research over a year 
ago on replacing plastics bags with paper bags.  The cost--  He did a 
complete analysis; and recently he has also done that with the plastic 
straws.  And I just listened to the exchange that you just had, previously, 
with Mr. Florio regarding the plastic straws versus the paper straws.  And 
one might think that that is a reasonable path to go down. 
 
There is a serious deficiency in a paper straw.  I did have the 
opportunity, last year, of visiting Alaska on a cruise.  And when you go into 
certain areas, the cruise ships do not -- for that entire day, beginning before 
the ship even arrives -- will not use plastic straws.  They give you paper 
straws. 
 
I never use a straw, ever, ever, ever.  My wife uses one all the 
time.  I used one that day because I was curious, because I am aware of the 
issue here in New Jersey.  And it disintegrated in a few minutes.  Does it 
work, initially?  Yes; but it is not really a suitable product.  And the most 
difficult part of this legislation, or my convenience store members who need 
to have straws because their customers take products, and go into their cars, 
and utilize the straws.  I understand there is a different aspect with a 
 
 
 
95 
restaurant; but my members who operate convenience stores -- people are at 
gas pumps, filling up with gas, go in and get a product that requires a straw.  
And certainly, there’s going to be an issue with the difficult nature of the 
paper straw and its disintegration factor.  And I would assume that that is 
probably exacerbated in a driving situation. 
 
So one of the things that I came here to ask this Committee is 
to reconsider the actual ban on the plastic straws.  The member that I said 
was very aggressive has actually reported back to me -- none of his suppliers 
are even capable of supplying it right now because of the movement that’s 
happening across the country.  There is a severe difficulty getting -- even 
getting the paper straws.  And he said virtually 100 percent of his customers 
who come in and purchase drinks do leave with a straw.   
 
So that is something that we hope we can have a dialogue with, 
with this Committee, and maybe make some improvements to the Bill. 
 
The other thing -- and this is a question my members ask me all 
the time -- and I have to tell you, listening to testimony all day long today, 
we have not, in this discussion, talked about the actual problem.  And that 
is the person who leaves -- that disposes improperly of the plastic, whether 
it’s a bag or a straw.  Twice I heard today -- first from you, Mr. Chairman; 
and it’s appalling, and I am going to assume you are as angry as I am -- 
about the number of straws and bags that were picked up off the beaches in 
a six-hour period.  That is disgusting. 
 
Now, I have to assume if there are 9,000 plastic bags that are 
picked up, that there are 5,000 or 6,000 very selfish, inconsiderate people 
who left them there; maybe even 9,000 selfish, inconsiderate people.  And 
 
 
 
96 
the 30-plus-thousand straws -- how many thousands of people are we 
talking about there?  And they -- they are the people who have caused this. 
 
  And one of the things that I found very surprising -- and it 
came from Jeff Tittel; and I am very--  I admire Jeff very much for the fight 
he puts up for his causes; and I just applaud him.  I don’t always agree on 
the solutions with Jeff, but one thing he said today was that we’re not 
looking to penalize the consumer; we want to penalize the business that 
breaks the law.  And I’m thinking to myself, it’s the consumer who is 
leaving and improperly disposing -- whether it’s on the beach or improperly 
disposing at home.  And again, I think maybe I’m more sensitive to this, 
and I hope that this is what I’ve transmitted to my members over the years  
-- is I consider myself a recycling kook; I want to recycle everything.  And I 
will even tell you, I learned something at your August hearing.  I listened to 
all the testimony and I learned that the plastic that wraps things -- not just 
the plastic bag -- but that, too, can be put in with the same recyclable 
plastic bags. 
 
Well, my family didn’t like that when I came home that day, 
because now I make sure we do that.  And I’m offended when a family 
member doesn’t properly recycle.  I believe we need more; and my members 
are willing to step up to the plate and help in this regard.  Help with the 
education process, because it’s not enough.   
 
And somebody did allude to the campaign, years ago, on litter.  
I remember, as a young man, watching the television with the Indian crying, 
in a canoe, with pollution all around the river.  And that was sincere, and it 
struck a nerve.  And there is no way we have the litter today that we had 
then.  Yet what we do have in terms of litter -- we’re dealing with in a very 
 
 
 
97 
serious matter, and that is the plastic.  I don’t want marine life ingesting 
plastic.  But if we ban a product that has been a huge benefit to society, and 
we don’t penalize the real problem -- and that is the improper disposal of it 
-- we’re going in the wrong direction.  And my members are asking for that 
to be put into the dialogue, and to recognize that this is going to be a 
burden on small businesses. 
 
And in regard to my members, specifically, the straw part of 
this legislation will be especially burdensome. 
 
Thank you very much for allowing us in the dialogue.  My 
members would like to continue to participate in the dialogue, and to solve 
the problem. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, sir. 
 
Maura Toomey, Clean Water Action. 
 
Maura, in favor. 
M A U R A   T O O M E Y:  Hi, my name is Maura Toomey.  I’m from 
Clean Water Action. 
 
We’re 
a 
national 
environmental 
grassroots 
advocacy 
organization. We’ve been working on these issues, here in New Jersey, for 
over 40 years. 
 
We represent over 150,000 members in New Jersey.  We have a 
canvass that goes out every single day.  We probably have talked to all of 
you at your doors; it may have been me, because I do that too. 
 
And like others have said today, this is an issue that people 
come to me about when I’m talking to them.  They care about this issue 
and they know about this issue. 
 
 
 
98 
 
So I just wanted to talk a little bit about how people are trying 
to pinpoint what the problem is.  And I think people are right, in a lot of 
senses; but the problem is coming from all levels.  So it’s the individual, but 
it is also the manufacturing level, it is also the business level.  And so I 
think that this Bill takes a good approach in actually tackling the main 
issue, which is waste reduction. 
 
Yes, recycling needs to be improved; yes, we need to not litter.  
But there needs to be more of a focus on waste reduction, which this Bill 
does.  Recycling was a paradigm shift 30 years ago, and waste reduction 
needs to be what we’re focused on now.  So we support this Bill and its 
efforts to do that. 
 
The pollution prevention funding would be definitely helpful to 
make it more successful to educate businesses; and we’d like to see more 
funding for programs that actually help implementing some of these 
changes.  So for example, Clean Water Action has an award-winning 
program called ReThink Disposable, which actually works with businesses to 
help them build in waste efficiency into their businesses.  And they benefit 
from waste reduction significantly, especially small businesses, especially 
businesses in the food service sector, by focusing on switching to reusables -- 
which is the goal of this Bill; changing habits to encourage reusable bags 
over plastic.  It’s not about switching from plastic to paper; it’s not about 
switching from plastic to compostable.  The focus is really waste reduction 
and reusables, because that’s, ultimately, the best environmental solution. 
 
  But the focus on reusables in businesses really helps them save 
money on product costs and waste-hauling costs.  Businesses that I’ve 
worked with personally save between $2,000 annually to $20,000 annually.  
 
 
 
99 
And these are small businesses; that means a lot to them.  And it definitely 
means a lot to have that money saved so they can reinvest it in their 
businesses.  And I’ve worked with them personally; they thank me for 
showing them these solutions where they don’t have to pay the extra cost 
just to do the right thing for the environment.  And they care about their 
business, but they also care about what their customers think, and they 
themselves care about the environment. 
 
So I guess I also just wanted to end that -- yes, it’s coming from 
the individual level with littering.  But even when this type of waste is 
entering the managed waste stream, it’s still an issue.  The single-use 
plastics 
entering 
landfills, 
entering 
incinerators 
are 
still 
causing 
environmental issues, also causing environmental justice issues worldwide.  
And so the effort that this Bill takes definitely, kind of, tackles all of those 
components.  So we support, with that.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:   Thank you for your comments. 
 
And our last witness is Tony Perry, from the Commerce and 
Industry Association; opposed. 
 
Mr. Perry. 
A N T H O N Y   P E R R Y:  Saving the best for last. (laughter) 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That’s one way to look at it, certainly. 
 
MR. PERRY:  Yes, exactly. 
 
Well, if Doug was worried about keeping you from lunch, then 
I certainly am. 
 
Good afternoon, members of the Committee; Mr. Chairman, 
thank you. 
 
 
 
100 
 
Tony Perry, from the Commerce and Industry Association. 
 
We are opposed to 2776.  It’s our opinion that this is not only 
bad for our businesses, especially small businesses; but bad for the 
consumer.  Our organization has great respect for the sponsors of the Bill 
and this Committee; but the small business and bodega exemptions -- they 
were not touched on today, and I just wanted to touch on them quickly. 
 
They do sound great; but our small business owners don’t have 
the time, the personnel, the expertise to apply for the very exemptions on 
an annual basis.  And I think that’s a concern, not only for the small 
businesses themselves, but for organizations like ours and the other business 
organizations here in Trenton. 
 
The Legislature, along with the Governor, has had a lot to say 
and has taken a lot of action in the last nine months that have been hurtful 
to businesses.  And just yesterday, the Tax Foundation rated New Jersey 
dead last when it came to the economic climate index; not, obviously, 
something that our organization is proud of, and I don’t think anyone in 
here would be proud of that. 
 
But Trenton has increased taxes on businesses, instituted new 
HR policies; and we hope that the business community and the Legislature 
can reduce pollution, but as partners.  
 
So I respectfully ask that the members of the Committee vote 
“no” on this legislation 
 
Thank you all very much. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
That concludes our testimony. 
 
 
 
101 
 
So two amendments to the Bill that we’d like to throw on the 
table:  The one was the one suggested by Senator Bateman -- in order to 
help the medicine go down a little more smoothly -- and that was that the 
Bill would be effective one year after; but the bag fee -- the paper bag fee 
would be effective at the end of the second year after passage.  And you 
would use that period to help educate the public so they start transitioning 
to the reusable grocery store bags.  And I think that’s the gist of what 
Senator Bateman was suggesting. 
 
And also I think that the comments from industry, and enviros, 
and the academic world were that it would be a very smart thing for us to 
have a plastics advisory council that could monitor the success or failure, or 
need for changes to the plastics program.  And if you would allow me to put 
together a balanced committee structure -- you know, equal -- all the 
stakeholders, appropriate governmental representatives. 
 
How do you feel about those amendments? 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Good. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator Greenstein’s good. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  That’s a good start, Mr. Chairman. 
 
Also obviously -- and you’re going to have it researched -- I have 
concerns about the whole issue of straws.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Were going to get it solved. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  And if this is an appropriate time-- 
And this is the most--  If I may-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  --this is the most interesting 
Committee because of the issues that we face-- 
 
 
 
102 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  --and these issues are not easy issues.
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No, they’re not. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  And we try to balance what’s in the 
best interest of the public without sending the wrong message to our 
businesses and our manufacturers. 
 
And let me tell you, these decisions aren’t easy.  And you know, 
today I’m going to vote to move the Bill forward; but I’ll reserve my right--  
If it doesn’t change, I’ll reserve my right to vote differently on the floor-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  --because these are very important 
issues.  And listen, I’ve seen it firsthand; it was raised earlier.  I’ve seen the 
number of plastics in our waterways, and it concerns me.  And I go to 
Manasquan every year, and I’ve seen bags in our ocean, unfortunately.  And 
right now, over 12 municipalities have already taken steps on their own to 
institute fees or bag bans.  Obviously, it’s a very important issue to all of us. 
 
But we also have to be, I think, aware of the consequences that 
our actions have here on businesses.  And that’s what concerns me.  And I 
will be criticized for this vote, believe me; especially as a Republican who 
likes smaller government and less taxes, I will be criticized.  But I also think 
that we have a responsibility to our environment.  And listen, I read the 
whole magazine article last month -- now I’m drawing a blank -- in National 
Geographic. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  I mean, and that was a real eye-
opener; I mean, the number of plastics in our environment.  And listen, our 
 
 
 
103 
responsibility is to try to make this earth cleaner for our children and 
grandchildren; and these are not always easy issues.  And what I found in 
the past, in New Jersey, is voters aren’t afraid to vote to increase taxes when 
they think the money’s going to be well spent-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  --towards the environment, Open 
Space, Farmland Preservation, Blue Acre Preservation, and Historic 
Preservation.  I mean, the ballot question in 2014 that passed in every one 
of the counties--  And also, in the past, many towns and counties have had 
Open Space taxes on the ballot, and people voted for it because they’re 
concerned about the environment. 
 
So difficult, difficult.  I appreciate all the testimony today, 
because it really is a difficult issue.  But I will vote to move it forward. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for letting Jiminy Cricket be 
your guide. (laughter) 
 
Senator Greenstein, anything you’d like to say? 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I’d just like to add that I think this 
is the right thing; as you said, Jiminy Cricket has told us that it is the right 
thing. 
 
We’ve heard from the businesses sincere approaches that they 
would like to take to make things better.  But the problem we face is, the 
problem gets worse and worse and very dangerous; and the steps that we 
take only, really, end up being baby steps, unfortunately. 
 
I think if people had taken steps years ago we wouldn’t be in 
this situation.  But I think we still need to take those steps; and I think that 
Jeff Tittel said it earlier, we need the Bills that do the cleanup, and then we 
 
 
 
104 
move ahead and make sure that we change our behavior.  And that’s really 
where we are with this.  We need a change of behavior. 
 
It’s going to be hard, absolutely hard, for everybody.  But it’s 
something that we need to do.  We’ve done it before on major issues, and 
we can do it now. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Terrific. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:   So I vote “yes.” 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, we didn’t have a motion to release 
yet-- 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Oh, we didn’t; oh.  (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --but we’re going to do it in a second. 
 
But just for the record, I had a discussion with Governor Codey 
before he left about the two amendments to the Bill, and the Bill itself.  
And he said that he left his vote in the affirmative; but he also left in the 
affirmative for the two amendments as well. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  And this is far from over. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  It’s not a perfect Bill. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And these are going to be changes to the 
Committee’s substitute. 
 
And by the way, since it’s a Committee substitute, anybody can 
sign on as a co-prime.  Senator Greenstein and I are now co-primes, but I 
think we definitely want to offer the opportunity to Governor Codey and 
Senator Bateman; and also Senator Oroho -- who is not here, and I don’t 
think there’s much chance.  But that is an opportunity that they have 
available to them. 
 
 
 
105 
 
Also, too, I don’t know whether you noticed or not, but we 
have our court stenographer (sic) here, just like we did at the Toms River 
hearing.  So when you spoke today as a witness, your testimony will be 
shared with 121 other people: the Assembly, the Senate, and the Governor’s 
Office; so that, hopefully, everybody’s thoughts and concerns get involved. 
 
When we release this Bill, we’re going to ask that it be referred 
to the Appropriations Committee.  Because there are some other issues that 
were brought up today -- like the completion of the straws issue; 
clarification about the packaging in supermarkets; what about the -- how 
the bag fees are going to work in terms who gets what; and a couple of other 
very significant issues.  But between the time that Appropriations hears it, 
we’ll have those issues worked out.  And if any of the stakeholders have 
continuing issues, please contact us and we’re going to try and come up 
with reasonable solutions to those issues. 
 
So with that being said, can I have a motion to release, with the 
two amendments? 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I will move it. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Moved by Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Second. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Seconded by Senator Bateman. 
 
And we’ll now take a roll call on the amended Committee 
substitute. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  On the motion to release the Senate 
Committee’s substitute for Senate Bill 2776, Senator Oroho left a “no” 
vote. 
 
Senator Bateman. 
 
 
 
106 
 
SENATOR BATEMAN:  Yes. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  Governor Codey left his vote in the 
affirmative. 
 
Senator Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes. 
 
MR. PETERSON:  And Chairman Smith. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
The bill is released; and we’re ending this particular segment of 
the most interesting Committee in the Legislature. (laughter) 
 
 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
