 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
"The Committee will meet to hear testimony from invited guests on what actions the State 
should take to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, 
 and the cost of those actions to ratepayers" 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 10 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
March 14, 2022 
10:00 a.m. 
 
 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice-Chair 
Governor Richard J. Codey 
Senator Edward R. Durr, Jr. 
Senator Jean Stanfield 
 
 
 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Christina Denney 
 
 
Joseph Gurrentz 
Eric Hansen 
 
 
 
Matthew H. Peterson  
 
Rebecca Panitch 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
Senate Majority  
 
 
Senate Republican 
Committee Aides 
 
 
Committee Aides 
 
 
Committee Aide 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
Jesse D. Jenkins, Ph.D. 
Assistant Professor 
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering 
Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment, and 
Lead 
ZERO Carbon Energy Systems Research and Optimization Laboratory 
Princeton University 
2 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
New Jersey’s Pathway to a 100% Carbon-Free Electricity Supply:  Policy and Technology 
Choices Through 2050:  Summary for Decision Makers 
submitted by 
Jesse Jenkins 
1x 
 
mej: 1-16 
 
 
 
 
1 
(This is an excerpt from the Senate Environment and Energy Committee 
meeting of March 14, 2022.) 
 
 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  So the order of the next item 
of business--  And I mention it only because Senator Lesniak is here, and I 
know he’s here for some of the animal bills. 
 
 
We do have a promise, however, to a Princeton -- a very fine 
Princeton professor.  Every one of our committee meetings starts with a 
discussion of global climate change and what are the solutions.  And, because 
I didn’t have my trusty notes immediately available, I forgot.  So let me ask 
Jesse Jenkins to come forward, and let me tell you a little bit about him, and 
right after that, we’ll get into it. 
 
 
Jesse Jenkins is an Assistant Professor at Princeton University in 
the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, and the 
Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment.  He is a macro-scale 
energy systems engineer, with a focus on a rapidly changing electricity sector, 
including the transition to Zero-Carbon resources, the proliferation of 
distributed energy resources, and the role of electricity in economy-wide 
decarbonization. 
 
 
Professor Jenkins leads the Princeton ZERO -- Z-E-R-O, capital 
letters -- Lab, the Zero-Carbon Energy Systems Research and Optimization 
Laboratory, which conducts research to improve decision making to 
accelerate rapid, affordable, and effective transitions to net-zero carbon 
energy systems. 
 
 
Professor Jenkins also served as Co-Principal Investigator of the 
Princeton Net-Zero America study, which offers guidance on how to build a 
 
 
 
2 
net-zero greenhouse gas emission economy in the United States.  Professor 
Jenkins has been published in peer-review journals and advised Federal and 
state regulators on energy policy. 
 
 
I think you’ll find Professor Jenkins’ input today to be really 
fascinating and maybe a totally different approach to global climate change. 
 
 
So, Professor, take it away. 
J E S S E   D.   J E N K I N S, Ph.D.:  All right, thank you, Chairman Smith, 
and honorable members of the Committee. 
 
 
I appreciate the opportunity to testify today and to share the 
findings of a new study that was published today from my Princeton ZERO 
Lab on pathways for New Jersey to reach 100 percent carbon-free electricity 
supply. 
 
 
As the Chairman mentioned, my name is Jesse Jenkins; I’m an 
Energy Systems Engineering Professor at Princeton University, but I must 
note that my views expressed today are my own and do not represent the 
views of the University. 
 
 
So as you know, New Jersey is among a vanguard of states that 
is pursuing a pathway to a 100 percent carbon-free electricity system.  In 
2018, Governor Phil Murphy’s Executive Order 28 set the goal of 100 
percent clean energy by 2050, and tasked the State’s Board of Public Utilities, 
in consultation with other State agencies, to develop the New Jersey Energy 
Master Plan to provide a comprehensive blueprint for the State’s conversion 
to a carbon-free electricity supply.  Additionally, the State’s Global Warming 
Response Act of 2007 directs State agencies to develop plans and policies to 
reduce emissions of greenhouse gasses across the entire economy by 80 
percent by 2050. 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
The Energy Master Plan was released in January 2020, which 
defines the goal of 100 percent clean energy as 100 percent carbon-neutral 
electricity supply by 2050; as well as maximum electrification of 
transportation -- electric vehicles; and buildings -- like electric heat pumps for 
water heating and space heating -- in order to meet or exceed the 
requirements of the Global Warming Response Act.  The Master Plan 
includes comprehensive modeling of pathways to transform the State’s 
energy system, and outlines a set of key strategies to reach New Jersey’s clean 
energy goals.  The Master Plan rests centrally on electrification of vehicles 
and buildings, accelerated deployment of renewable and distributed energy 
sources, retention of our existing nuclear power plants, and improved energy 
efficiency. 
 
 
Well, today, after a two-year effort initiated by Dr. Chuan Zhang 
and Neha Patankar, and ably completed, under my supervision, by Dr. 
Qingyu Xu, The Princeton ZERO Lab is releasing a new study entitled New 
Jersey’s Pathways to a 100% Carbon-Free Electricity Supply.  The goal of this 
study is to provide an independent, detailed assessment of key policy and 
technology options and choices, and their implications for New Jersey as we 
chart the path to 100 percent clean electricity.  In particular, this study 
examines least-cost options for New Jersey’s current laws -- to reach New 
Jersey’s current laws and stated policy goals under a range of possible future 
conditions, and to explore the role of in-state solar photovoltaics (PV), 
offshore wind, nuclear power, gas-fired power plants, and imported electricity 
from the rest of the region in the State’s electricity future. 
 
 
Our goal is to provide an independent assessment of costs and 
trade-offs associated with our different choices that face stakeholders and 
 
 
 
4 
decision-makers in the region, and to provide actionable insights to guide 
decisions. 
 
 
For this study, we used a state-of-the-art electricity system 
optimization model, originally developed by myself at MIT, and now jointly 
supported by the MIT Energy Initiative and the Princeton ZERO Lab.  This 
model plans investments and operational decisions to meet our projected 
future energy demands, while meeting all relevant engineering, reliability, and 
policy constraints, all at the lowest affordable cost.  We create a detailed 
model of the New Jersey electricity system, as well as the broader PJM 
interconnection that we are a part of, and neighboring grid regions that we 
trade with, in order to explore a range of policy, technology, and fuel price 
scenarios to assess options for New Jersey to reach 100 percent clean 
electricity by 2050. 
 
 
So now I’ll summarize some of the key findings and takeaways 
of the study for the Committee.  First, I think most importantly, a transition 
to 100 percent carbon-free electricity is feasible while maintaining necessary 
reliability and with reductions in bulk electricity supply costs.  Across a range 
of possible futures that we model in the study, we find that a least-cost 
strategy to reach 100 percent carbon-free electricity by 2050 results in a 5 to 
25 percent decrease in bulk electricity supply costs, relative to a 2019 cost 
benchmark.  Bulk electricity supply costs include the cost of full-scale 
electricity generation, capacity, transmission costs, and policy support for 
bulk generation, energy storage, and distributed solar resources.  Excluded in 
our totals are distribution network costs, retailing and hedging costs, and 
other policy charges that might be included in retail bills as well. 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
Second, though we find the lowest cost strategy, to reach 100 
percent carbon-free electricity entails a significant increase in New Jersey’s 
dependence on imported electricity.  Imports of wind, solar, and other 
carbon-free resources from out of state are generally more affordable than 
available in-state resources, and so make up about two-thirds of New Jersey’s 
electricity supply by 2050 in our least-cost strategy. 
 
 
We also find that electricity demand could grow significantly, 
with total sales increasing by 70 percent, and peak demand increasing by 85 
percent, as electrification of vehicles and buildings proceeds, consistent with 
New Jersey’s economy-wide climate goals.  These new demands for electricity 
will also shift the pattern of electricity consumption in important ways, from 
summer afternoon peaks driven by air conditioning demand, to winter 
overnight peak demands driven by electric vehicle charging and heat pump 
heating demands.  That has important implications for the value of different 
resources in our mix; for example, the role of solar power, which produces 
most of its energy, of course, during the daytime and can’t contribute to those 
winter overnight peak periods. 
 
 
Fourth, we find that the lowest-cost pathway to a carbon-free 
electricity supply departs in important ways from New Jersey’s current 
approach to policy, which prioritizes in-state and distributed energy 
resources, like rooftop and utility-scale solar, offshore wind, and our existing 
nuclear power plants. 
 
 
We find that import dependence can be reduced by requiring 
more in-state renewable resources than in the least-cost strategy, and by 
preserving the state’s existing nuclear reactors -- but this comes at a higher 
cost for New Jersey electricity consumers.  The most affordable strategy that 
 
 
 
6 
we identified to prioritize in-state resources, which would meet about 80 
percent of electricity demand in that scenario, increases our bulk electricity 
supply cost by about 7 to 10 percent relative to the least-cost strategy.  Yet 
this strategy will result in costs that are still comparable to or lower than 
today’s, ranging from about 20 percent below to 4 percent greater than 2019 
costs, depending on the different uncertain futures that we look at. 
 
 
Sixth, we also look at scenarios where all states in the region 
pursue parallel pathways to deep decarbonization goals, following New 
Jersey’s lead, and proceeding to develop clean electricity sources and to 
electrify vehicles and buildings.  We find that in this case, if other states 
follow our lead, it will increase costs for New Jersey by 16 to 20 percent in 
2050.  The reason for that is that greater demand for clean energy across the 
region drives up the cost of imports for New Jersey, as more people are 
demanding the same resources across the region.  That means that bulk 
electricity supply costs in 2050 are higher, but still range from between 13 
percent below and 11 percent above 2019 costs, assuming all states in the 
region pursue similar goals.  So still roughly comparable to 2019 costs, but 
more reliant on in-state resources and with higher costs for imports. 
 
 
If we take a look at some of the key technology options that New 
Jersey faces, our study finds the following:  The least-cost pathway to 100 
percent carbon-free electricity supply for New Jersey entails a substantial 
expansion of utility-scale solar resources; new gas-fired generating capacity, 
mostly efficient combined cycle power plants; and conversion of all of these 
gas plants to run on zero-carbon fuels by 2050.  That could include some 
combination of hydrogen, biomethane or biogas, or synthetic methane 
produced from carbon-free or carbon neutral sources; as well as a significant 
 
 
 
7 
increase in imports, as I mentioned, of zero-carbon electricity from 
throughout the region.  And then we also include off-shore wind, distributed 
solar, and storage capacity that’s required by current statutes and regulations. 
 
 
We looked closely at the role of New Jersey’s existing nuclear 
plants, and concluded that preserving New Jersey’s nuclear generators can 
reduce dependence on imports, and avoid an increase in fossil gas generation 
-- and associated CO2 emissions and air pollution -- that might otherwise 
occur in the 2030s when those nuclear plants retire and are replaced, in part, 
by natural gas generation.  Supporting continued operation of New Jersey 
reactors after 2030 is consistently among the lowest cost options for in-state 
carbon-free generation.  But we stress it would require ongoing policy support 
after 2030, when the current Zero-Emissions Certificates Program ends. 
 
 
Additionally, if all states in the region pursue deep 
decarbonization and/or the state prioritizes in-state generation, maintaining 
nuclear operation is part of a least-cost strategy to meet the State’s goals.  We 
find that utility-scale solar is considerably lower cost than the distributed 
resources that have typically been supported by State policy.  Expanding large 
utility-scale solar projects is part of the least-cost portfolio in all of our 
scenarios.  In the end, though, deployment may be constrained in the long 
run by available land for citing of large-scale solar farms.  So proactive steps 
to identify locations, and setting reforms and processes that could untap or 
unlock more utility-scale solar setting potential, would help lower the cost of 
our transition. 
 
 
Expanding distributed or smaller-scale solar resources on 
rooftops or parking lots, or other facilities connected at the distribution level, 
will require more substantial policy support, but may become a lower-cost 
 
 
 
8 
option than off-shore wind by the 2040s, as cost declines for solar PV are 
expected to continue.  We find that requiring about 23 gigawatts of 
distributed solar by 2050, which is similar to the values in the New Jersey 
Energy Master Plan, would increase our 2050 bulk electricity supply cost by 
about 6 to 11 percent, relative to the least-cost import-dependent strategy.  
But growing distributed solar could lower costs if the State is committed to 
80 percent of our electricity from in-state resources. 
 
 
I wanted to note that this study is limited in scope to modeling 
the wholesale electricity system at the transmission level, so distributed solar 
systems can result in additional costs and/or savings at the distribution level, 
depending on the pattern and scale of deployment, and these impacts are not 
assessed but are important to consider when we look at distributed solar. 
 
 
Offshore wind is one of the more expensive options that New 
Jersey has for decarbonization, and we find in our modeling it is rarely 
deployed beyond current mandated levels across the scenarios that we 
modeled.  There are some exceptions in futures where all states are pursuing 
deep decarbonization, and therefore we need to rely more on in-state 
resources, since out-of-state resources prove more expensive. 
 
 
Flexible electricity demand -- we just heard about the importance 
of network charging -- can reduce New Jersey’s peak consumption of 
electricity and help compensate for increased demand from electrification of 
vehicles and buildings.  Unlocking this kind of flexible demand can substitute 
for what would otherwise be poorly utilized battery storage capacity or gas-
fired generator capacity -- that is rarely used -- and could eventually lead to 
cost savings for New Jersey consumers on the order of half a billion dollars 
annually by 2050. 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
New Jersey gas-fired generating capacity actually expands in 
almost all of our modeling until 2040, while electricity generation, 
consumption of fossil gas, and related emissions from these units all decline.  
Gas-fired capacity, or the ability to produce power when needed, is needed 
to meet growing demand from electrification as we turn more to electric 
vehicles and heat pumps.  But we use these resources less and less over time, 
as more clean energy deployment squeezes them out of their role in the 
energy mix.  By 2050, these resources would all have to be converted to run 
on some zero-carbon fuel; or, if we pursue a carbon neutrality approach, any 
residual emissions would have to be offset by carbon removal technologies by 
2050, when 100 percent carbon neutral electricity is required.  By that point, 
these gas generators are used very infrequently, only to provide firm power 
during periods when both wind and solar output are very low. 
 
 
Finally, New Jersey will need to expand our transmission capacity 
to increase deliverability between coastal and inland areas in the near term, 
in order to integrate the offshore wind that we’re planning to deploy on the 
coast; as well as to significantly strengthen ties to neighboring regions, states 
in PJM, and New York in the longer term, in order to enable greater imports. 
 
 
I’ll leave it there and would like to leave some time for questions, 
if you have any. 
 
 
And I appreciate the opportunity to share these findings. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Our biggest -- one of our biggest concerns 
is affordability.  The actions that we need to take for global climate change 
we think will meet great resistance from the New Jersey public if there is a 
huge cost associated with it.  And I noticed your first -- not your first choice, 
 
 
 
10 
but one of the first things you talked about, was getting more out-of-state 
renewable electricity as a model. 
 
 
I don’t know that New Jersey wants to be dependent on other 
states and their policies.  If we rely more heavily on renewables in New Jersey, 
can we still say to our citizens, with a straight face, that there’s a way to do 
that and keep the costs very manageable? 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  Yes, so that’s definitely the central choice that 
our study identifies -- how much do we want to depend on lower cost 
resources from throughout the region?  Importing solar from North Carolina, 
for example; or wind from Indiana or Illinois or Pennsylvania, where the 
resource quality is better and there’s more land availability. 
 
 
And so we present, you know, sort of two poles of that, and we 
could land somewhere in between, of course.  So the lowest-cost strategy is 
certainly to import resources from throughout the rest of the region -- again, 
that could result in a 5 to 25 percent decrease from current electricity supply 
costs, so certainly meeting our affordability needs. 
 
 
But if we take current electricity costs as a benchmark and 
consider those as affordable, there are other strategies that would be higher 
cost than that but still affordable relative to today.  The key would be to 
maintain our existing nuclear reactors and to develop utility-scale solar 
resources within the state.  So larger multi-megawatt solar farms.  Those are 
consistently the lowest-cost options for in-state carbon-free generation, 
offshore wind and distributed solar on rooftops being considerably more 
expensive; so we want to maximize the use of those resources before turning 
to more expensive resources, if affordability and in-state generation are our 
goals. 
 
 
 
11 
 
 
And of course, affordability is central but also there are other 
rationale for having in-state development.  Economic development, 
environmental impacts could be a pro or a con, for setting in-state.  And so 
our study doesn’t comment on those other considerations, but tries to 
provide quantitative guidance on the affordability implications. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And would it be possible for you to send us 
the study that was released today-- 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  -- so that we can share it with our members? 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  Yes.  I provided a summary I printed out for 
members today, and there’s a link to the full report, which has additional 
detail for staff and others.  And I’m happy to continue to discuss any of these 
findings. 
 
 
You should also note that in the future--  We have now 
established this detailed model of the New Jersey electricity system, and we’re 
happy to provide resources in the future to assess other scenarios that may 
be of interest to the Committee. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That will be very helpful for New Jersey. 
 
 
Questions from other members? 
 
 
Governor. 
 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  How the hell did you lose to Yale 
yesterday?  (laughter) 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  No comment on that. 
 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Really?  Did you go? 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  No, I was traveling yesterday. 
 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  I didn’t think so. 
 
 
 
12 
 
 
Let me ask you this.  What would be the best investment for us 
to make right now, as a State, in terms of the environment? 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  So the best from an affordability perspective, at 
least, would be to continue to develop larger utility-scale solar resources to 
try to unlock more flexible demand, so that we’re not building transmission 
and distribution capacity or peaking power plants that are sitting around idle 
most of the time.  Both of those are probably going to require both policy 
support and some regulatory reform in order to look at how we’re going to 
cite utility-scale solar resources more effectively, and how to incentivize 
demand of -- electricity demand to be more flexible.  Particularly new large 
consumption from electric vehicles or heating electrification, which has a lot 
of potential to shift around when it consumes and avoid those most heavily 
utilized periods. 
 
 
So those are probably the two biggest ways, and then we are 
continuing -- we are now supporting our existing nuclear fleet through 2030; 
continuing that beyond 2030 would also help create a base of existing low-
carbon generation that we can then build from in the state. 
 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  By the way, when I was Governor, I 
spoke at Princeton.  And I got up and I said, “I was almost a student here, 
but I was 300 points short on the SAT.” (laughter) 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  I’m not sure I would have even been admitted 
by (indiscernible) either as a student, so no worries there. 
 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  And that was just on the math side. 
(laughter) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any other questions from members for 
Professor Jenkins? 
 
 
 
13 
 
 
Senator Greenstein. 
 
 
SENATOR LINDA R. GREENSTEIN (Vice Chair):  Thank 
you. 
 
 
A very large percent of the greenhouse gas emissions in our state, 
I guess about 40 percent, comes from the transportation sector.  How would 
you characterize New Jersey’s current progress, as we’re moving toward 
electric vehicles and other things, in transportation emissions reduction; and 
what policy changes do you identify that could help reduce these emissions? 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  That’s a great question, and there are, of course, 
important implications for electricity demand as we emphasized in the report 
as well.  So we have to tackle both challenges of reducing emissions in 
electricity and expanding our electricity supply -- clean electricity supply to 
prepare for electrification. 
 
 
I would say New Jersey is amongst the leaders in the country for 
vehicle electrification -- that’s thanks in part to State policy support; rebates 
for electric vehicle adoption within the state that add to Federal incentives, 
and make it an affordable option for more consumers to purchase electric 
vehicles.  Greater support for EV charging networks is critical, I think, to 
promote mass adoption at this point.  We’re at a point now where the 
industry is at a turning point.  You see companies shutting down their 
investment in internal combustion engine development and committing 
entirely to electric product lines, so the industry is responding, the mass 
market models are increasingly available in all vehicle segments. 
 
 
And so now the key is that for the next, you know, eight years or 
so, it’s likely that there will still be an upfront cost premium for purchasing 
an electric vehicle.  So you’ll see that sort of sticker shock up front; but the 
 
 
 
14 
cost of ownership is already lower today, including that upfront cost, for 
electric vehicles, because fueling costs are far lower, even before gas prices 
shot up, and maintenance costs are lower. 
 
 
So taking that initial sting out of the purchase price through the 
continuation of those sorts of incentive programs can really help facilitate 
adoption, as well as ensuring that range anxiety and charging needs are met 
with a robust charging network.  That’s particularly important in places where 
you don’t have off-street parking, so finding ways to develop networks for 
folks in city, urban environments, as well, is key. 
 
 
New Jersey’s policies have focused on light-duty vehicles, 
primarily, and bus fleets, which is a good place to start.  But medium and 
light-duty vehicle fleets -- you know the vans and delivery vehicles that bring 
all of our Amazon shipments and things like that -- that could also be cost-
effectively electrified now, as well, and further focus on those vehicle 
segments is important.  They are also significant sources of air pollution since 
a lot of that fleet is diesel, and so there are significant environmental justice 
and public health improvements that would come along with that as well. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any other questions from members? 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Would you say that -- because I’m reading 
reports, and maybe you can correct it -- is the mining for the batteries of the 
cars more harmful than what we have now? 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  So I wouldn’t say it’s more harmful; I mean, there 
are different types of harms and they are important to consider as part of the 
supply chain.  So cobalt and other metals that are used in lithium-ion 
batteries, some of them come from parts of the -- countries with terrible 
 
 
 
15 
human rights concerns, right, like the Democratic Republic of Congo.  And 
so the industry is moving away from those sorts of things, and we need to 
continue to accelerate our reduction and independence on those sorts of 
minerals for batteries. 
 
 
But from a total resource consumption perspective, and from an 
emissions perspective, it’s far better to use electric vehicles today than to 
continue to-- 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Are they looking to improve the quality, 
too?  The American people are an impatient bunch, and I hear 45 minutes to 
charge. 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  Yes, but you don’t do that very often, right?  You 
do that at home.  And the convenience of not having to go to the pump every 
couple of days to fill up is also, I think, underappreciated. 
 
 
Consumer satisfaction amongst folks who have adopted EVs is 
quite high, and you see that in the vehicle offerings that Ford, and GM, and 
others are offering now.  Reservations for the F-150 Lightning, the electric 
truck, are done -- they can’t meet the demand for the rest of the year.  So I 
think there’s a significant uptick happening as well, as the vehicles have 
gotten to the point where it’s not just a little hatchback you can buy; now 
you can buy midsized SUVs, you can buy full-sized pickup trucks, you can 
buy vans.  And so the technology has significantly improved in the last few 
years and the industry is investing heavily in making sure our needs as 
consumers are met. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Okay. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Senator. 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
Any other questions?  (no response) 
 
 
Professor Jenkins, we’re going to put you on speed dial. 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  Okay; thank you very much. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We do appreciate your comments. 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  Thanks for the opportunity. 
 
 
(END OF EXCERPT) 
 
