 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
“The Committee will meet to hear testimony from invited guests  
on the impacts of climate change in New Jersey, and what actions the State is taking,  
and should take, to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 2050” 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 6 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
February 10, 2022 
10:00 a.m. 
 
 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT:  
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice Chair 
Senator Richard J. Codey 
Senator Edward R. Durr, Jr. 
Senator Jean Stanfield 
 
 
 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT:  
 
Christina Denney 
 
 
Joseph Gurrentz 
 
Eric Hansen 
 
 
 
Matthew H. Peterson  
 
Rebecca Panitch 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
Senate Majority  
 
  
Senate Republican 
Committee Aides 
 
 
Committee Aides 
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
Joseph L. Fiordaliso 
President 
Board of Public Utilities 
State of New Jersey 
6 
 
Shawn M. LaTourette 
Commissioner 
Department of Environmental Protection 
State of New Jersey 
17 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Joseph L. Fiordaliso 
1x 
 
PowerPoint 
Confronting New Jersey’s Climate Change Risks, and 
*New Jersey’s Global Warming Response Act 80x50 Report, and 
*State of New Jersey Climate Change Resilience Strategy, and 
*2020 New Jersey Scientific Report on Climate Change, dated June 30, 2020 
submitted by 
Shawn M. LaTourette 
7x 
 
*these documents are only available on the online version of the transcript 
https://www.njleg.state.nj.us/public-hearings 
 
pnf:1-32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  So let me welcome 
everyone to the most interesting Committee in the Legislature, in my 
opinion.  
 
We have two new Senators joining us today.  We have Senator 
Ed Durr; we’re thrilled to have him on the Committee.  And we also have 
Senator Jean Stanfield -- brand-new.  And we welcome you both to the 
Committee, and we hope you also find it the most interesting Committee in 
the Legislature.  
 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So we have a whole bunch of things 
we’re trying to do today.  One, before we get into any business, we’re going 
to get into some business that’s not on the list; and that is that we’re 
announcing today the formation of a Forest Stewardship Task Force, and also 
Co-Chairs for that effort.  
 
 
And for our new Senators, forestry is an issue that you’ll 
end up really feeling a lot of pain, and bruises, and body marks from, because 
it’s a very intensely felt issue in this state.  There are literally hundreds, if not 
thousands of people who have an interest in what we do with our forest 
policy.  And we’ve tried, over the last 20 years, to develop good forestry policy 
for private landowners and for public forests; and we’re not there yet.  And 
we’re not there yet because things have dramatically changed; namely, what 
we’re going to hear about in our first -- some of our early testimony.  
 
 
We have two of our great public servants to talk about 
global climate change and what it means to New Jersey.  But one of the things 
it means is, that our forests are at risk.  I’m sure you’ve seen the footage, two 
or three years ago, of half the country burning down, all right?  I mean, it 
 
 
 
2 
wasn’t just California; it was really like from the center of the country, out 
west.  And we could be in that same situation. 
 
And you also need healthy forests, sustainable forests, so that we 
can mitigate the impacts of global climate change.  
 
So anyway, today we’re announcing the appointment of four co-
chairs.  You might say, “Why four co-chairs?”  Because this is a model that 
worked several years ago for beach access -- also a very contentious issue -- 
and we asked those four co-chairs to invite everybody in the world who had 
an interest in that topic to come to meeting, after meeting, after meeting, 
after meeting.  And roughly, about nine months after the beach access task 
force did its job, they came back to us with a report -- which we’re going to 
share with everybody -- and the report said, “What is it that everybody can 
agree on, and then where do we still have substantial issues?”  And from that, 
we were able to put together a beach access Bill that took another two years 
to get passed.  But we think we have a better beach access policy now than 
we did previously.  
 
So the same thing with forests.  And by the way, we also did one 
task force that didn’t work, and that was for natural resource damages.  We 
appointed Co-Chairs; they met, they met, they met, they met.  Then they 
came back about nine months later and said, “We couldn’t agree on 
anything.”  So that happens, too. 
 
But I don’t think that’s going to happen here.  We have four 
outstanding Co-Chairs, and let me just tell you about them.   
 
We have Eileen Murphy.  Eileen Murphy is the Vice President 
of Governmental Relations at New Jersey Audubon.  Her experience includes 
21 years with the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and 
 
 
 
3 
10 years with Rutgers University.  She’s a charter member of the US EPA 
Science Advisory Board.  She received her Ph.D. from Rutgers in 
environmental sciences, and a master’s in outdoor education from Northern 
Illinois University.   
 
Eileen, I don’t know if you’re here; but if you’re here, would you 
stand up?  (Dr. Murphy stands)  There’s Eileen, over there.  Thank you very 
much for coming down today. 
 
The next Co-Chair -- Andy Bennett graduated from the 
University of Tennessee with a degree in forest management.  He is an 
Approved Forester in the State of New Jersey, recognized as a Technical 
Service Provider by the NRCS; licensed with the NJDEP as a Certified 
Pesticide Applicator, Certified Tree Inspector, member of the Society of 
American Foresters, and serves on the Board of the New Jersey Forestry 
Association.  Andy and his teammates at Ridge and Valley Forest 
Management serve more than 650 private landowners in northern New 
Jersey. 
 
Andy Bennett, are you here?  If you are, would you stand up and 
give us a wave?  (confers with staff)  He’s not here.  That’s right; he could not 
make it today. 
 
Tom Gilbert is well-known to all of us.  Tom Gilbert is the Co-
Executive Director of the New Jersey Conservation Foundation.  He has over 
20 years of experience working in the nonprofit sector on forest, natural 
resource, and energy policy issues.  He previously served as the Senior 
Conservation Finance Director with the Trust for Public Land, Director of 
Eastern Forest Conservation for the Wilderness Society, and Executive 
 
 
 
4 
Director of the Highlands Coalition.  He received a bachelor’s in history and 
a master’s in natural resource planning from the University of Vermont. 
 
 Tom, if you’re here, would you stand up and give us a wave? 
(Mr. Gilbert stands) Thank you. 
 
 And Anjuli Ramos, who is the New Jersey Director for the Sierra 
Club.  Anjuli Ramos replaced Jeff Tittel, who retired last year.  You know, 
the Sierra Club has deep roots in conservation and the protection of New 
Jersey forests.  She has extensive experience in climate change, specifically 
climate pollutant inventory work, from her time at the New Jersey 
Department of Environmental Protection.  She received a master’s from 
Rutgers University in environmental chemistry. 
 
Anjuli Ramos, if you’re here, would you stand up and wave? (Ms. 
Ramos stands) There’s Anjuli over there.   
 
So, you remember that scene in the Rocky films?  You may 
consider the scene in the Rocky films when you have Mister T with the gold 
necklaces who says, “I pity the fool.”  I don’t want to say that to you; but you 
have no idea what you’ve signed up for, okay? (laughter) 
 
I mean, it’s going to be rough and tough because the opinions in 
forestry run the whole gamut.  And your job is to get everybody who wants 
to participate in this, to participate, so we get all points of views covered and, 
hopefully, what would been 17 hearings by this Committee will end up being 
one hearing at the very end.  So you’re really doing a major favor for the 
people of New Jersey in helping us to get this right, hopefully the first time 
around.  And we’ve already talked; we’re here to help, but we’re basically  
going to get out of your way.  And anybody who wants to participate on the 
 
 
 
5 
Forestry Task Force -- for the moment we’re going to say, send your cards 
and letters to--  
 
(confers with staff) 
 
All right; so we’re going to issue a press release that will have an 
e-mail address.  And these four people are involved in so many environmental 
organizations, I’m sure they have e-mail lists that would make our e-mail list 
look pretty small.  But, for example, the New Jersey Highlands Coalition just 
did a forestry seminar open program; they had over 600 people attend.  So 
we are--  And we’re going to use their e-mail list; we’re going to use all four 
of their e-mail lists; we’re going to use our e-mail list, and hopefully we’ll 
capture everybody.  
 
We’re asking that you try your best to have this report -- 
consensus policy stuff we can’t agree on -- back to us by the end of the year.  
And if you can do that -- again, you’d be doing great favor for the citizens of 
New Jersey.  So I wish you all well.   
 
And also, while the Commissioner of the DEP is here -- it would 
be lovely if we could get somebody from the DEP to also be involved with 
the Task Force so we make sure we’re not missing anything, okay? 
 
So the plan for today’s hearing, or meeting -- we have two of our 
outstanding public servants in this State to come to us and tell us a few things. 
And we’re not doing bills on this today, but the plan is for the whole bunch 
of next Environmental Committee meetings -- we’re going to start with what 
I think is the existential threat to this state and to the planet: global climate 
change.  And what we’re asking people to talk to us about is, what damage 
has already been done to New Jersey, what are we currently doing to mitigate 
global climate change, and then, thirdly, what should we be doing, all right? 
 
 
 
6 
 
So we’re asking--  And I guess it’s also seniority; not that he’s an 
old guy, but we’re going to ask our first witness, the President of the BPU, 
who is absolutely critical to our energy policy in the State, Joe Fiordaliso, 
President of the Board of Public Utilities, to come forward and give us his 
view of global climate change and what we should be doing.  
 
Joe, welcome.  
J O S E P H   L.   F I O R D A L I S O:  (off mike)  Thank you. 
 
You sure this is not age before beauty? (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, it’s any way you want to take it. 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  Okay. (laughter)   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’ll just call you the senior public policy 
member. 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:   Good. 
 
Thank you very much, first of all, for having me here, Mr. 
Chairman and members of the Committee.  
 
I would be remiss if I didn’t start my remarks with a compliment; 
and that compliment is, without your efforts, Mr. Chairman, an awful lot of 
our efforts would not be in existence today.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So what you’re saying is, I’m a serious pain 
in the arse? 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  Well, you can interpret it-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You can say “yes.” 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  --any way you’d like. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, okay. 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  Not at all. 
 
 
 
7 
 
It’s actually a pleasure to work with you, because we get things 
through.  We have good dialogue with the Legislature as far as climate change 
is concerned.  
 
So on behalf of the Board of Public Utilities, I want to say “thank 
you.” 
 
Good morning, Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee.  
 
I want to thank you for inviting me here today to speak with you, 
and giving me the opportunity to discuss both the threats we face from 
climate change, as well as the efforts undertaken by the Administration to 
negate the threats.  
 
Most people don’t go to bed at night worrying about climate 
change.  We have to, because it’s been proven that it has a direct effect on 
our way of life.  As you know, a recent United Nations intergovernmental 
panel on climate change referred to our current situation as a code red for 
humanity; code red.  The U.N. report verified what most of us already know: 
That climate change is affecting nearly every part of our planet.  It is 
intensifying, and that some of the consequences are or soon will be 
irreversible.  
 
Greenhouse gases, a majority of which are the result of human 
activity, are placing the planet, and every human on it, in danger.  Under 
Governor Murphy’s leadership, the State is taking concrete actionable steps 
to allow us to reach a goal of 100 percent clean energy by 2050.  And when 
you combine our clean energy and nuclear goals, we are already more than 
80 percent clean, hopefully by 2030.  
 
New Jersey’s Clean Energy Program -- administered by the Office 
of Clean Energy, which is part of the Board of Public Utilities -- and the 
 
 
 
8 
Legislature designated the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities as the Office 
of Clean Energy back in 1999.  Let me assure you the Board takes seriously the 
need to keep energy costs affordable for all New Jerseyans; that’s in our 
mission statement.  Is clean energy expensive?  Yes, but how expensive would 
it be if we did absolutely nothing? 
 
As I will mention throughout my remarks today, the Board is 
focused on bringing down the cost of clean energy because there is simply no 
separating the fight against climate change from issues of energy affordability.  
 
I assure you, the Board clearly identifies the cost of each of the 
initiatives before they are enacted.  And we continually assess and reassess 
the best way to deliver economic, climate, and local health benefits to the 
residents of our state.  
 
Over the last decade, the impacts of climate change have been 
increasingly evident, as New Jersey has faced an endless procession of storms 
that are more severe and coming in more frequent intervals than any other 
time in our life.  Eight major storms since 2011 have cost the lives of 67 New 
Jerseyans.  They caused over 7.5 million multi-day customer outages, and 
they cost the State several billions of dollars in damage and economic loss. 
 
 There’s a full description of the storms in my written testimony 
that shows just how devastating they have been to our electric grid.  The 
Board has made major infrastructure investments over the last decade to 
harden our infrastructure, and those investments have been effective in 
lessening the effects of these storms.  
 
We will likely never get to zero outages, but we have made 
tremendous progress.  And one of our goals is to reduce those outages and to 
reduce the duration of those outages.  
 
 
 
9 
 
I understand that sea level rise and global temperatures -- 
temperature increases of 2 or 3 degrees Celsius seem abstract.  However, 
major changes in weather patterns and the unprecedented number of super 
storms that we have experienced is not abstract, nor is it the only negative 
effects of climate change.  Increasing heat in our urban centers; increasing 
health concerns, such as asthma, from growing emissions, and nearly every 
facet of life will be negatively impacted.  
 
Unfortunately, we anticipate the trend of increasing global 
climate-related threats will continue to get worse.  This is why it’s so 
important for the Board to propel Governor Murphy’s clean energy goals 
forward.  
 
There’s a cost to combating climate change.  But as I said before, 
the cost of doing nothing is far greater.  There has been a concerted effort to 
scare residents about mandates and costs.  And to be clear, the Board has 
issued no mandates as of this point.  We hear that the State has no idea what 
this will cost, but also we can’t possibly afford it.  And that’s been going 
around also.  
 
Let me be absolutely clear.  The Board of Public Utilities does 
not put a program in place without knowing what the impact to the ratepayer 
will be.  Every offshore wind solicitation award has included the ratepayer 
impact.  Our solar proceedings all include cost estimates; please underline 
estimates.  The same for energy efficiency for electric vehicles.  
 
Now, to be perfectly clear:  Some of these numbers are estimated 
because they depend on market forces which cannot be predicted with 100 
percent accuracy.  But we do not put programs into action without those cost 
 
 
 
10 
estimates being known and made public.  This Board has had more 
stakeholder encounters than in the previous 10 years combined.  
 
Before we do anything, we have stakeholder encounters.  We 
want to hear from the public; we want to hear from the experts.  We don’t 
pretend to know it all.  We’ve never done this before, so we’re all learning 
together.  
 
I’m proud to say we are more than halfway to meeting the 
Governor’s offshore wind goal of 7,500 megawatts by 2035.  The offshore 
wind program will create 7,000 high-paying jobs and produce an estimated 
$4.7 billion -- that’s with a B -- dollars in economic activity.  It will power 
more than a million homes with clean, renewable energy.  
 
We are taking advantage of our prime coastal location by 
developing the New Jersey Wind Port in lower Alloway’s Creek, which is 
expected to produce another $500 million in economic activity in South 
Jersey.  
 
We are investing in a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility, to 
build the monopile foundations for the turbines that will serve the nation’s 
offshore wind industry, right here in New Jersey.  And I don’t remember the 
last time we were able to recruit a manufacturing firm to come back to New 
Jersey.  This is exciting stuff; and it’s not only exciting for South Jersey, it’s 
exciting for the entire state.  The facility is currently under construction at 
the Paulsboro Marine Terminal, and will create more than 500 high-paying 
skilled jobs.   
 
And New Jersey is leading the way on modernizing our electric 
grid to ensure that we can deliver all that power to New Jersey customers in 
an affordable and environmentally friendly way.   
 
 
 
11 
 
The offshore wind program is the centerpiece of our clean energy 
revolution here in the State of New Jersey.  And we are working to make New 
Jersey the supply chain for all of the East Coast offshore wind industry, which 
will continue to bring new economic opportunities.  Our 130-mile coastline, 
our location, is perfect to be the supply chain for the offshore wind industry. 
 
 Solar:  The solar industry in New Jersey is one of the biggest 
success stories, having recently reached 150,000 solar installations, making 
New Jersey the number one state for installed solar per square mile.  Think 
about that; New Jersey.  Other states discovered that they have sun -- states 
like Florida and Arizona -- so they’re building a lot of solar.  We don’t have 
nearly as much sun as they do, but we’re outpacing them because of the 
dedication of your Committee and the Governor.  
 
The industry supports over 6,000 jobs, and we are continuously 
growing that number.  We have been successful in implementing the 
Legislature’s solar reforms from the Clean Energy Act of 2018.  These reforms 
are significantly lowering the cost of solar without diminishing the 
participation in the program.  In many cases, new solar costs only half of what 
we were paying just two short years ago.  As renewable energy increases its 
production, the costs come down.  In fact, the pipelines for our various solar 
programs are full of applicants eager to take part in New Jersey’s solar 
program, even with substantially reduced incentive levels.  
 
From the widely successful community solar program -- which is 
bringing the benefits to low- and moderate-income communities -- to 
upcoming programs, like grid scale and dual-use agriculture solar -- we 
continue to grow the industry while lowering the cost.  And through 
legislation that was proposed and passed by Senator Singleton, we have 
 
 
 
12 
created, within the Board of Public Utilities, an Office of Clean Energy Equity 
to ensure the fact that every segment of our population, in every region in 
our state, has the opportunity to participate in the energy revolution that is 
occurring in the State of New Jersey.  Regardless of income, regardless of 
location, it is extremely important that all of us have the opportunity to 
participate.  Because to mitigate the effects of climate change requires the 
efforts of each and every one of us, all 9 million people who live in this state.  
And we can do it  -- we can do it.  
 
As you’ve heard me say before, the lowest energy cost is the 
energy we don’t use.  And that is why we are so proud of our Energy Efficiency 
Program, which could not be successful without the cooperation of our 
utilities.  And our utilities have been cooperative over these years, as far as 
clean energy is concerned.  Energy efficiency helps reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions and mitigate climate impacts, while bolstering the economy, which 
is a necessary co-benefit during the global crisis.  
 
The Board has enacted several utility-specific Energy Efficiency 
programs that will help to lower energy costs for customers, reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions, improve air quality, support environmental justice, 
and bolster the economy with new jobs.  Energy Efficiency projects are labor- 
intensive, and therefore these initiatives are helping to support and develop 
local economies and expand job markets.  We have made it a primary goal to 
ensure that those in environmental justice and overburdened communities 
not only have access to Energy Efficiency programs, but also have access to 
the jobs that will be created through these programs. 
 
Transportation:  Forty percent of our carbon emissions come 
from transportation; 40 percent.  And if you drive the Turnpike and the 
 
 
 
13 
Parkway every day, as you sit there -- particularly the Parkway lately -- you 
see these emissions being spewed up into the air.  Forty percent.   
 
We have initiated an electric vehicle program, with incentives, to 
encourage people to buy electric vehicles. 
 
 We’re looking at electrification of buildings, always keeping in 
mind what will it cost the ratepayer to implement those programs. 
 
The electric vehicle program is one that has caught on.  And to 
be perfectly frank, incentives help to encourage people to go out and 
participate in the program.  That’s how we started the solar industry -- 
through incentives.  And we have modified it over the years because the goal 
was always -- and I’ve been around a long time at the BPU -- the goal always 
was to reduce the incentives as the years went on, and as the industry 
matured, so that they could stand on their own two feet.  I’m a firm believer 
in the fact that government -- if there’s something in the societal benefit -- 
government has an obligation to participate.  But then, at a certain point, we 
have to pull back a little bit and let the industry put its feet in the open 
market.  
 
 And over the past 15 years, we have pulled back.  But our 
commitment to solar, our commitment to electric vehicles, our commitment 
to offshore wind energy efficiency, electrification of buildings remains strong, 
and we are encouraged by the cooperation that we’re getting.  
 
One of the things that keeps me enthusiastic, keeps me going -- 
number one, I have an outstanding staff; but number two, we have, each and 
every one of us, a moral obligation to ensure the fact that we do everything 
possible to mitigate the effects of climate change.   
 
 
 
14 
 
That’s how future generations are going to view us.  If you have 
children, if you have grandchildren -- I only have six grandchildren -- but their 
kids, and  subsequent generations are going to judge us on how well we 
handled this crisis.  There is no question about it.  Because this is the crisis 
of our generation, of our time; and how we handle it will say an awful lot 
about our generation, and how we handle a situation as devastating as climate 
change.  
 
Again, Mr. Chairman, members of the Committee, I want to 
thank you for this opportunity.  I never try to miss an opportunity to talk 
about clean energy and the mitigation of climate change. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Great. 
 
Joe, we can’t thank you enough for coming in today, updating us 
on what the BPU is doing. 
 
Let me ask first -- are there any Senators who have questions for 
Mr. Fiordaliso, our President? 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:   Yes, but-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Governor Codey. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  The Committee does not know this, but 
Joe was my employee.  He’s famous for-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That explains a lot. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  So yes, the day I woke up and found out 
I was going to be Governor he was on an island-- 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  That’s true. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  --and he couldn’t get off of it. (laughter) 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  A hurricane was coming through that 
island, and we couldn’t fly out. 
 
 
 
15 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So I only have one question, and that is, 
what more should we be doing?   
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  We have to keep our foot to the pedal.  You 
know that better than anyone, Senator, and you are one of the people who 
has not taken their foot off the pedal.  And we have to look at every possible 
way to mitigate the effects of climate change.   
 
But we have to look at it, too, in a prudent way and in a logical 
way.  I want to assure people that it’s not that we take some mud and throw 
it up against the wall and hope something sticks.  We don’t deal that way. 
We look at it, we get the advice of experts, we get the advice of the 
stakeholders, we get the advice of the general public, and keep in mind the 
cost to the ratepayer.  And I believe--  And every day -- and I’m sure you’ve 
seen it -- every day somebody comes in my office with some innovative idea. 
I mean, it’s so exciting to see what goes through people’s minds, and so on.  
 
We have to get more involved in storage.  Storage is an expensive 
part of this.  However, it’s one of the vehicles that’s going to make green 
energy work.  We have to get involved with it, and ensure the fact that our 
grid is stronger, our grid is able to accept the renewable energy that we want 
it to interconnect.  We work very closely with our utilities to ensure the fact 
that they are constantly working on their grid; constantly.  I mean, offshore 
wind is going to do us no good if there’s no place to connect it.  
 
So, I mean, this is a priority; we have to continue to work in that 
direction -- storage, new initiatives.  But taking them individually, taking 
them prudently and making sure--  Again, I mentioned before in my 
testimony, we’ve never done this before. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
 
 
16 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:   And are we going to make mistakes, are we 
going to trip?  We may, yes.  But you know what?  If you don’t make 
mistakes, you don’t learn.   
 
So with the cooperation of you, and your Committee, and the 
Legislature, we’re going to make it work.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Pedal to the metal.  
 
Thank you very much for coming in today; it is much 
appreciated. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Mr. Chairman. 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  Thank you, sir.  
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Joe, I’m so proud of you.   
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  Well, thank you.  
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  You’ve come so far.  
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  I have.  
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  Now you’re a big shot; I mean-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good teacher; no question. 
 
MR. FIORDALISO:  I had a good teacher. 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  A big shot. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  For sure. 
 
So I’d like to invite to the microphone Shawn LaTourette, who 
is our Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection.   
 
And again, as you’re coming up, Commissioner, the questions 
are:  What kind of damage have we already suffered?  What are we currently 
doing about it, and what should we be doing? 
 
Commissioner. 
 
 
 
17 
C O M I S S I O N E R   S H A W N   M.   L a T O U R E T T E:  (off 
mike)  I like to be prepared, so I will distribute one to each of you. (distributes 
information packets) 
 
 As I said, thank you for inviting both Joe and I here today.   
President, thank you so much for all the work that you and your team are 
doing to advance our main energy agenda.  
 
But to answer the Senator’s first question about what we’re in 
for and how bad it will be -- I thought that I would show you.  
 
So one of the things that we have the pleasure of doing at the 
DEP is serving as your science agency.  We work with academics and experts, 
throughout the state and around the world, and we prepared -- two years ago, 
or a year-and-a half-ago -- the State’s first ever Scientific Report on Climate 
change, right?  Because as the President mentioned, we hear one horrifying 
report after another from the international scientific community, but it can 
leave you wondering what it means for us here in New Jersey.  It can feel 
abstract, esoteric.  
 
But there should be no mistake that New Jersey is ground zero 
for some of the worst impacts of climate change.  And that’s not hyperbolic; 
I’m not an alarmist.  I think many of the wonderful environmental advocates 
who have joined us here today would agree with that.  But the impacts to 
New Jersey are real and potentially devastating.  In many respects, due to the 
fact that we’re unlike California and many parts of the West, in that we are 
a water-rich state, we enjoy many benefits from that; but it is also punishing 
us.  New Jersey has a risk of sea level rise two times greater than most other 
places on the planet.  Our projections that we’ve done with scientists from 
 
 
 
18 
around the country and world suggest that we have a serious likelihood of 
experiencing 2 feet of sea level rise increase by 2050, and 5 by 2100.  
 
Precipitation is increasing throughout New Jersey; the President 
remarked upon that.  I’ll show you some of that data, because the Idas and 
the Sandys -- they’re just going to keep coming, and we need to be more ready 
than we are.  
 
Shockingly, we’re going to see periods of drought between all of 
this intense rain.  Right now, we are in an incredible dry spell.  Today, as I 
sit here before you, I am concerned for the status of the aquifers in the center 
of our state.  And I’m concerned that we’ll see an even worse wildfire season 
this year.  Last year, in New Jersey, we saw over 900 wildfires, which is kind 
of shocking.  So thank you to all of the folks who have volunteered to be part 
of our forest management program.   
 
If you go to the third page of the slide deck that I provided you 
-- and that I’ll make available to the public as well; many of the folks here 
have seen it before -- you’ll see a picture of Atlantic City today.  Flip the page, 
and you’ll see Atlantic City with 2 feet of sea level rise.  It’s counterintuitive, 
right?  We think of sea level rise and we think eroding beaches.  Sure, they 
are eroding; and we’re throwing lots of money at them.  But the sea level rise 
-- it comes in from the back; it floods out the back bays.  The Delaware 
Bayshore, in the southern part of the state, is the most vulnerable within this 
decade.  
 
You flip to the next page and you’ll see Atlantic City with the 
2100 projection.  And I want to be clear about one thing.  These projections 
are based on a moderate emissions scenario -- meaning, it’s not the worst.  
 
 
 
19 
The worst would be between 8 and 10 feet, drowning the Barrier Islands.  
And again, that’s not alarmist; it’s just science.  
 
And so the question of, “What do we do?”  it hits me hard in the 
heart.  I love the Barrier Islands.  
 
One of the most--  Oh, before I do that, the southern part of the 
state--  If you look to the next page, you’ll see Bridgeton and Millville.  If you 
flip that page, you’ll then see the 2 and 5 feet of sea level rise in the southern 
part of New Jersey; again, the most vulnerable,  
 
Townships like Downe and Salem in Cumberland County -- we 
have to do more to help them.  
 
One of the things that’s important to recognize, based on this 
moderate emissions scenario, is that between now and 2050, the harm that 
we’ll experience -- its baked in, right?  It doesn’t matter how many EVs we 
put on the road, how many wind turbines are twisting in the ocean, between 
now and 2050 we just have to get more ready for the bad things to continue.  
 
That doesn’t mean we shouldn’t be doing all of the things that 
President Joe laid out.  We should be doing them, and we should be doing 
them faster.  Because depending on how fast we do those things, it will 
determine just how bad it is after 2050.  
 
The 1980s, honestly, was the lost decade to get climate change 
under control; and we didn’t do anything.  It seems too hard and too big, but 
there’s a pathway.  And this Legislature tasked DEP with identifying that 
pathway.   
 
But before I get to that, I just wanted to touch upon what we 
experienced in Ida, and how underprepared we all felt for that intense rainfall. 
Part of the reason that we felt and experienced that under-preparedness, is 
 
 
 
20 
because every stormwater apparatus, every piece of infrastructure in this 
state, is undersized.  Because the last data point we use in developing any 
stormwater control is from 1999.  We pursued studies with academics and 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to fill the gap of the 
last 20 years and, shocker -- there’s been more rain since 1999; between 2.5 
and 10 percent more, depending on where you are in the state.  And when 
we project that forward -- using a downscaling of climate models, again, in a 
moderate emission scenario, not the worst case -- those increases go from 20 
to 50 percent, depending on where you are in the state.  And if you visualize 
the State of New Jersey in your mind’s eye, and you drew a teardrop in the 
middle of it, put the tip of that teardrop up around Milford -- inside that 
teardrop would be the hardest hit areas, with the most increase in rainfall.  
 
Those are the communities that were so devastated by Ida.  It’s 
just science.  
 
But the economic impacts of climate change -- if you flip to the 
next page -- are so real.  And we experience them constantly; it’s not some 
far-off proposition.  And we are now in a position, scientifically, to identify 
the cost of a devastating event that is related to the anthropogenic nature of 
climate change.  So for Sandy, for example, studies have been able to identify 
the amount of that cost that was because of anthropogenic sea level rise.  
Thirteen percent of Sandy’s damages were because we didn’t do anything in 
the 1980s.  
 
We have to do a better job at integrating climate risk across our 
government, across our businesses, our industry, our insurance markets; 
everywhere.  It is beginning to affect the bond ratings.  Large financial 
 
 
 
21 
institutions are evaluating our preparedness, for example, in the case of 
issuing sovereign debt.  It’s well past time that we follow suit.  
 
Now, to put in perspective the climate policy of the State, I 
would flip you to the to the next page.  And I think of this really simply:  The  
climate policy of the State of New Jersey is to reduce and respond to climate 
change.  To reduce means to mitigate our emissions.  All of the energy items 
that the President was speaking with you about: how we move forward on 
solar, and wind, and electric vehicles, and so forth.  That will reduce our 
emissions.  There’s other modes for reducing our emissions as well that are  
unrelated to energy.  
 
And how we respond to climate change; how we prepare 
ourselves.  Because we are not ready; Ida showed us that. 
 
 In each of these channels of policy there’s really a three-part 
framework.  The thought leadership and direction of the big pieces of 
planning, like the energy master plan or our Global Warming Response Act 
Report; like our Climate Change Resilience Strategy.   
 
But a plan isn’t  worth the paper it’s written on without action.  
And so we think of that action in two different ways, too:  incentives, like the 
President had spoken about with respect to energy; but there are incentives 
on the adaptation side as well. The Blue Acres program; Resilient  New Jersey 
planning grants; the changes, for example, that Senator Smith shepherded on 
the Municipal Land Use law.  
 
But because incentives in the free market are not enough to do 
the job, we have to perform supportive regulatory reform.  And by that I 
mean, don’t -- not beating folks over the head, but we do need to lead 
ourselves to a place where we are more forcefully reducing these emissions 
 
 
 
22 
and becoming more resilient.  We are one of the few states without a Flood 
Disclosure Law, for example. 
 
If you flip to the next page, you’ll see--  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  By the way, by Flood Disclosure Law you 
mean that before there are real estate transactions, the potential buyer has 
the ability to -- or there is part of the transaction some disclosure information 
that makes sure everybody knows what they’re buying. 
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  Correct. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  That is not the case in New 
Jersey. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Got it. 
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  It is in Texas. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  So I’ve brought for you all   
-- and I’ll leave them here with Matt-- these pieces of thought leadership and 
direction.  The Legislature, through the Global Warming Response Act, 
tasked DEP with an important job: Measure the emissions inventory of the 
State of New Jersey.  We have done that for you.  Tell us all the ways that 
this State -- Senator, to answer your question -- can reduce those emissions. 
What are the specific things we must do, as a policy matter, as a legislative 
matter, and as a regulatory matter.   
 
We issued what we call the 80 x 50 Report --  how we reduce 
emissions 80 percent by the year 2050, because that is the law the Legislature 
passed.  We put that report together, and I brought you copies here today.  
 
 
 
23 
We built that road map for you, and we are here to help you in implementing 
it in any way you will have us. 
 
 There are many things that we can do on our own within our 
own authorities.  As the President described, BPU is working incredibly hard 
-- and thank you to your entire team, again.  DEP, too, can do many things; 
but there are so, so many more that are necessary and that we cannot do 
without you.  
 
So if you flip to the next page, you’ll see what our greenhouse gas 
emissions profile is.  And this is from 2019, because it takes a -- there’s a lag 
in collecting the information, verifying the information, and putting it out. 
But our net emissions now are just under 98 million metric tons of carbon a 
year, and we have to get that down to the 20s.   
 
And you can see from this slide that transportation is our biggest 
emissions problem.  That is largely based on our car culture and the emissions 
from vehicles.  Electric generation, as the President mentioned, is cleaner in 
New Jersey than many other places in the country, in part because of the shift 
from coal to natural gas.  We don’t have much remaining coal here.  
 
But if you look at residential and commercial -- which are 
separate on this chart -- together they represent the second-largest source of 
our greenhouse gas emissions.  That’s our buildings; they’re incredible energy 
wasters.  And it is a gargantuan undertaking to electrify them.  And as the 
President said, there are no mandates; there are scare tactics, but there are no 
mandates.  This is work we must do together.  Climate change requires a 
culture change.  We have to begin thinking about this differently.   
 
And we can; the tools are there.  But change is hard, even scary.   
 
 
 
24 
 
If you flip to the next page, you’ll see what our pathway is to get 
to 80 percent by 2050, and to the interim target of 50 percent by 2030.  
 
Our plans -- the Global Warming Response Act planning, the 
Energy Master Plan planning -- our plans will get us there.  But we are not 
well on our way, because we need more help.  We need help from every sector 
of civil society.  This is not a job that the BPU can do alone, despite the fact 
that they’re heroes; or the folks at the DEP, who have made the cause of 
protecting our environment the cause of their lives.  It requires industry, 
government, this Legislature, everyone, rowing in this direction -- and fast.  
 
I’ll share just a few things that DEP is doing, within our existing 
authority, as a very first step.  The Governor announced, when the energy 
master plan was unveiled, a suite of regulatory reforms called New Jersey 
Protecting Against Climate Threats, or NJPACT.  And it has two components, 
just like climate policy generally: reduce and respond.   
 
We have the suite of reforms we call the Climate Pollutant 
Reduction program, or CPR.  In that first phase, there’s about five rules moving 
right now that will reduce, at its full implementation, 8 million metric tons 
of carbon.  Last week at a hearing, that DEP was holding on just one of these 
rules -- there are five -- there was a lot of concern that it’s not enough.  That 
concern is well-placed.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  In some ways, we’re at the 
beginning of the beginning, because we should have started so much sooner. 
 
 But again, this is just the first step.  The Climate Pollutant 
Reduction program will be an iterative one; as soon as these five rules are out, 
the next five will come, and so forth.  
 
 
 
25 
 
Phasing down emissions from electric generating units -- 
constrained, of course, by the auspices of the Federal Clean Air Act and the 
State Air Pollution Control Act that were very technology-driven.  They are 
not driven by climate imperatives, although we can force them in a particular 
direction.  
 
We’ve put forward rules to advance the transition to an electric 
vehicle future in the medium-duty sector.  We’re working on a rule for cargo 
handling equipment because our ports are dirty and they are harming the 
health of the residents, overwhelmingly minority Black and brown residents, 
creating a huge environmental justice problem that has persisted for far too 
long.  
 
But where are we in that? Flip to the next page, on 
transportation.  This is just one example in why we need more help.   
 
The electric vehicle pathway.  That blue line that you see at the 
top, as the highest, is the plan from the Energy Master Plan.  The orange one 
is the very ambitious piece of work by this Legislature for electric vehicles and 
getting more of those on the street, with incentives that Joe’s team is working 
so hard on.  But then that green line at the bottom is where we actually are. 
It is not enough.   
 
And we do need more help and we do need to move faster. But 
again, climate change requires a culture change.  We have to encourage folks; 
we have to open hearts and minds to the projections I showed you. Because 
New Jersey is going to look and feel different than it does today, no matter 
what we do.  But we are in control of how much worse; all of us together are 
in control.  
 
Turning quickly to the resilience conversation. 
 
 
 
26 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Let me stop you for one second. 
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  A little--  I’m as crazed as you are about 
global climate change.  But the one thing on this transportation EV chart is 
you’re not showing EV sales.  You know, you have recent EV sales; we really 
don’t have numbers for anything beyond 2021.  So you might want to      
take--  Hopefully, we’re going to be talking about much larger EV sales in the 
future.  This one kind of says, “There’s going to be no change,” and we have 
seen the national auto companies in this country make major commitments 
to EV production in the future.  
 
So just saying, from the point of accuracy-- 
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  That is a fine point.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --you might want to  take that out.  
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  That is a fine point.  The 
United States is trailing behind all other countries in EV adoption; all of 
them.  The ones that are meaningfully working on it.  And it’s not growing 
at the clip that it needs to, is the point to be conveyed.  
 
But I appreciate that, Senator.  I will adjust it.  
 
You know, you’ll hear that New Jersey is but one state in one 
region in one country, on one planet; and even if we do all the hard work of 
reducing our emissions, what if Pennsylvania doesn’t, or China doesn’t?  I 
think there’s courage in leadership.  But that also presents the issue of 
resilience more starkly, right?  Because we are so interdependent, we have to 
be ready for it to get worse; and we’re not.  And so there are two exercises 
underway on that.  There is a statewide climate resilience strategy, that has 
 
 
 
27 
been put forward in its inaugural edition, identifying all the things that we 
need to be doing -- only some of which we are.  
 
And then, if you flip to the next page, similarly we’re pursuing a 
reform known as Resilient Environments and Landscapes, or REAL, because 
climate change is real.  And that reform is intended to adjust our 
environmental land use scheme to make sure we’re using current data, that 
we’re not informing the design of our infrastructure based on 1999’s rainfall.  
We have to give the water more places to go.  We have to better protect our 
flood hazard areas, and recognize that they are a lot larger than they look on 
a FEMA map, because that FEMA map is also informed by the past, not the 
present, and certainly doesn’t project into the future.  It is why you probably 
heard from many of your constituents post-Ida, “I don’t even have flood 
insurance,” or, “I didn’t know I was in a flood area.”  Because the flood zones 
are just way bigger than they are depicted on these maps; the maps are 
backward-looking.  So we will adjust them for New Jersey. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right?  And even when you adjust the 
maps, the problem is that Mother Nature is not necessarily our best friend 
on this.  Look at Ida, and you had nine inches of water in areas of the state 
that never had that kind of rain before.   
 
And unfortunately, we’re going to see more of those storms, 
because every time this planet gets a little bit warmer, the atmosphere can 
absorb and hold more water -- it just means more water to come down.   
 
And so even the predictability--  I believe you do need more 
information involved in property transactions.  But there’s going to be a lot 
of -- we’re just not going to be able to guess, because Mother Nature is not 
 
 
 
28 
necessarily on our team.  But she doesn’t have a choice, with all the global  
climate change gases in the atmosphere.  
 
Sorry to interrupt. 
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  No, that’s fine Senator.  I 
appreciate the comment.  
 
The water doesn’t know to stop at a line on a map, right?  It’s a 
fiction in ways, where we’re making an assumption about risk; an informed 
and educated assumption.  Those assumptions just need to be updated, and 
we’re doing that.  
 
I’m not trying, in my testimony here, to take away from any of 
the good efforts of this Legislature or the Murphy Administration.  We have 
moved more boldly on these issues than any Administration in this State’s 
history.  The problem is just so big, and we -- the royal we, all around the 
planet -- just waited too long.  You can’t turn on a dime.  But there is too 
much at risk to not push further, and to not do more.  
 
So I’ll leave it there, and I’ll thank you all for being here; I’ll 
thank the audience for listening.  And I’m happy to take any questions you 
have. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure. 
 
Members of the Committee -- anybody have any questions for 
Commissioner LaTourette? 
 
Senator Greenstein. 
 
This is a profile in courage and persistence.  Senator Greenstein 
had a flat tire on the way down here today, and still managed to get 
transportation here.   
 
 
 
29 
 
SENATOR LINDA R. GREENSTEIN (Vice Chair):  Gotta get 
here. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  She didn’t want to miss today’s meeting-- 
 
GOVERNOR CODEY:  She changed it herself, too. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  That would really be a profile in 
courage. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Senator, you have a question.  
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I do have a question. 
 
Commissioner, it’s always great to hear you.  I was listening in 
the car on the way, so I heard most of the hearing -- my friend’s car.  
 
How will you ensure that New Jersey utilities are fully aligned 
with the transition to clean energy, including decarbonization of the electric 
and building sectors, enhancing energy efficiency, modernizing the grid, and 
supporting electric vehicle charging infrastructure? 
 
I’m particularly interested because we’re trying to work on this 
bill on carbonization -- or decarbonization of concrete.  And in fact, I was 
very pleased that the League of Conservation Voters made it one of their top 
five legislative priorities for this year.  So that’s a good thing, and we’re 
working closely, I believe, with your agency, and certainly the Governor’s 
Office, trying to get it through.  And I’m just wondering what you generally 
think of that issue -- the building sector, essentially.  
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE: So on the first part of the 
question, for the utilities, I think that’s probably more a question for the 
President, in terms of his direct line to the utilities. 
 
But we do regulate the air emissions of the utilities.  And one of 
the things that we are working on for that particular issue, in the first phase 
 
 
 
30 
of our CPR reforms, is instituting a cap on carbon -- a cap that is independent 
of any market mechanism.   
 
And so that is something that we’re pursuing; it’s in open 
rulemaking now.  I think that those types of reforms, from my perspective, 
send an important market signal.  There’s no confusion among industry, the 
direction that we’re going. There’s concern, I think, from the industry 
perspective on the pace of that transition; and I can understand it, right?  If 
you’re trying to electrify the transportation sector, you want to be careful 
with respect to your approach to fossil fuel-fired power plants, for example, 
because you’ll need them to power all the EVs.  We have great offshore wind 
goals, but all of those projects won’t be deployed for some time.  The first 
one perhaps will start next year, but it’s going to take time, right?   
 
And we’re part of a regional marketplace for energy.  So there’s 
a risk that, depending on how all these things are sequenced, that you trigger 
the firing of dirty coal plants in Pennsylvania -- which, by the way, blow on 
us and contribute to our inability to meet ambient air quality standards.  It’s 
not because of our power plants, primarily; it’s because of the others. 
 
 So I think it’s important to send those market signals, and to 
work closely with the industry.   
 
And on the concrete issue, building products are a huge source 
of greenhouse gases-- 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes. 
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  --in part because of how 
they’re manufactured.  And we’re not so great about reusing our buildings, 
right?  And so every time we knock one down and build another, we are 
contributing further to the problem.  
 
 
 
31 
 
So I think that that is worthy to pursue, and thank you for doing 
it.  
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thanks; and I have just one follow 
up question.  
 
With all these different goals that you’ve been talking about -- 
which are virtually all just wonderful goals -- are there some that you see that 
you might not be able to get to until later; or any that conflict?  I mean, 
there’s just so much to be done.   
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  There is so much to be 
done, and in the report that I’ll leave you with it gives you the pathway and 
the sequence of, in what method, what’s the most important?  And from my 
perspective, looking at the largest sources of emissions -- right? -- is among 
the most important.  And when we do that, the benefit to health, particularly 
in underserved and overburdened communities, is undeniable.  So a focus on 
the transportation sector is a good one, but it can’t be the only one.  We need 
the renewable resources to power that electrification.  
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Senator Greenstein. 
 
Any other questions? (no response) 
 
If not, Commissioner, we really appreciate you coming in today. 
And this will be a string of informational sessions for this Committee.  Next 
Committee meeting we plan to have in Rutgers University and Princeton 
University to give us their view of what we should be doing, more than we’re 
currently doing.   
 
 
 
32 
 
And I very much appreciative the document that you provided 
today, with the pathway, and what you think the DEP can do, and what we 
should be doing in assisting you to accomplish your goals.  
 
So thank you so much for all your hard work, and be prepared 
to work even harder.  
 
COMMISSIONER LaTOURETTE:  We will do whatever it 
takes.  
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Commissioner; I appreciate 
that.  
 
 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
 
 
 
