 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
ASSEMBLY ENVIRONMENT AND SOLID WASTE COMMITTEE 
 
“The Committees will meet to hear testimony from invited guests and the public on issues of 
climate change and coastal resiliency, and what steps the State can take                            
to address these issues” 
 
LOCATION: 
Toms River Municipal Complex 
Toms River, NJ 
DATE: 
August 11, 2022 
10:00 a.m. 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda Greenstein, Vice-Chair 
Senator Richard J. Codey 
Senator Edward R. Durr, Jr. 
Senator Jean Stanfield 
 
Assemblyman James J. Kennedy, Chair 
Assemblyman Sterley S. Stanley, Vice-Chair 
Assemblyman Clinton Calabrese 
Assemblywoman Bethanne McCarthy Patrick 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Eric Hansen 
 
Christina Denney 
 
 
Joseph Gurrentz, Ph.D.  
Rebecca Panitch 
 
 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
Senate Majority  
 
Senate Republican 
Committee Aides  
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
Committee Aide 
 
Catherine Tung  
 
 
David Harkness 
Assembly Majority 
 
 
Assembly Republican 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aide 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
Shawn M. LaTourette 
Commissioner 
Department of Environmental Protection 
3 
 
Eric Olsen 
Director of Conservation Programs 
New Jersey Chapter 
Nature Conservancy 
10 
 
Adrianna Zito-Livingston 
Coastal Projects Coordinator 
New Jersey Chapter 
Nature Conservancy 
16 
 
Peter Kasabach 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Future 
19 
 
Kimberley Irby 
Policy Manager 
New Jersey Future 
20 
 
Raymond Cantor, Esq. 
Vice President 
Government Affairs 
New Jersey Business and Industry Association 
26 
 
Tim Dillingham 
Executive Director 
American Littoral Society 
29 
 
Thomas P. Fote 
Governor’s Appointee 
Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC) 
31 
 
Fred DeSanti 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Solar Energy Coalition 
34 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Michael Egenton  
Executive Vice President 
Government Relations 
New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce 
38 
 
Eric Miller 
New Jersey Energy Policy Director 
Natural Resources Defense Council 
40 
 
Dennis Hart 
Executive Director 
Chemistry Council of New Jersey 
41 
 
Larry Barth 
Managing Director 
New Jersey Resources, and 
Director 
Corporate Strategy 
NJR Clean Energy Ventures (NJRCEV) 
43 
 
Jeff Tittel  
Former Director 
New Jersey Sierra Club 
45 
 
Mary Barber 
Director 
New Jersey State Affairs 
Environmental Defense Fund 
48 
 
Thomas Lynch 
Managing Partner 
CI Renewables/KDC Solar 
50 
 
Tina Weishaus 
Co-Chair 
DivestNJ 
52 
 
Edward Wengryn 
Field Representative/Research Associate 
New Jersey Farm Bureau 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Richard Lawton 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Sustainable Business Council 
55 
 
Carol E. Gay 
President 
New Jersey State Industrial Union Council 
61 
 
John T. Tomicki, Esq. 
Executive Director 
League of American Families 
62 
 
Eric Benson 
NJ Campaign Director 
Clean Water Action 
64 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Shawn M. LaTourette 
1x 
 
Testimony 
Submitted by 
Eric Olsen 
10x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Kimberley Irby 
14x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Fred DeSanti 
18x 
 
Testimony, and 
New Jersey Climate Change Resiliency Strategy 2021 
submitted by 
Doug O’Malley 
State Director 
Environment New Jersey 
22x 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
Appendix (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Kirk Frost  
Private Citizen 
148x 
 
RE: S2978 
submitted by  
Brian O. Lipman 
Director 
Division of Rate Counsel 
160x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
James R. Chew, Jr. 
Bus. Manager/Sec. Treasurer 
Boilermakers Local 28 
164x 
 
Re: S416 and A1733 
submitted by  
Joseph A. De Flora 
Director of State and Local Outreach 
Northeast Region 
American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers 
165x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Sharleen Leahey 
NJEA Legislative Rep/Association Rep 
Somerset County Education Association 
167x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
American Petroleum Institute 
168x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Deb Convery 
Private Citizen 
170x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
Appendix (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Kenneth Hammond 
Private Citizen 
171x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Patricia Kaufman 
Private Citizen 
173x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Jaewoo Lee 
Private Citizen 
174x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Sid Madison 
Private Citizen 
175x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
KelleyAnn Morris 
Private Citizen 
178x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Susan and Richard Mullins 
Private Citizens 
181x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Hannah Reynolds 
Private Citizen 
182x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Rev. Kathryn J. Riss 
184x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
Appendix (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Jo Sippie-Gora 
Private Citizen 
185x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by  
Mark Yuschak 
Private Citizen 
186x 
 
mej: 1-65 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  While the Chairman is 
coming out, it’s great to be back.  It’s been two years since we had a shore 
environmental hearing, and it is a thrill to be back to talk about some really 
important issues. 
 
 
Assemblyman Jim Kennedy runs the -- he’s the Chair of the 
Committee on the Assembly side, and he’s going to introduce his members, 
I’m going to introduce my members. 
 
 
But, a couple of ground rules, if we can.  Life is short, we’re 
getting a little bit of a later start.  We’re going to have a hard stop at 12:30 
p.m.  So, we’ve got a lot of work to do in two hours, and, just so you know, 
we have a number of speakers before we even get to the two bills that are on 
the agenda.  We have the Commissioner of the DEP Shawn LaTourette to 
talk about the impacts on the shore-- 
 
 
MR. GURRENTZ:  Oh, there’s no Nick, by the way. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t know what you mean. 
 
 
MR. GURRENTZ:  I’m sorry, Nick Angarone is gone. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, okay. 
 
 
So, in addition to the Commissioner, we have Eric Olsen, who is 
the Director of Conservation Programs at the Nature Conservancy.  They’ll 
be the first two speakers to talk about global climate change and the effects 
on the shore.  And then we also have-- 
 
 
MR. GURRENTZ:  So, (indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, Adrianna Zito-Livingston, Peter 
Kasabach, and Kimberley Irby.  We’re going to try and do all that in an hour, 
and then the second hour we’ll try to do a half an hour on each of the bills. 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
For those people who are intensely interested in those two bills, 
this is a hearing -- no bill release, no votes -- we’ll start to elicit some of the 
issues, and in the fall we’ll be taking those bills up and there will be plenty of 
opportunities for people to testify.  So, if you don’t get a chance today, don’t 
feel bad about it.  There will be plenty of opportunities. 
 
 
And, that being said, we are blessed.  Senate Environment 
Committee is blessed, because we have Assemblyman Kennedy as the Chair 
of the Environment Committee on the Assembly side.  And, I will say, the 
Speaker did a great job of picking the Chairman of the Assembly Committee. 
 
 
Jim, if you would introduce your members, that would be great. 
ASSEMBLYMAN JAMES J. KENNEDY (Chair):  Sure.  Thank you, Bob. 
 
 
Sorry, I was running a little bit late this morning.  Okay, let’s see. 
 
 
We have Assemblyman Calabrese, we have Assemblyman 
Stanley, Assemblywoman McCarthy Patrick, and myself. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Terrific; what a great crew. 
 
 
And on my side, I have Senator Durr -- Senator, raise your hand.  
All right, and Senator Stanfield.  And, both Senator Durr and Senator 
Stanfield are products of South Jersey.  And, then I have Senator Linda 
Greenstein, who is Vice-Chair of the Committee, from Plainsboro, right?  
From Plainsboro. 
 
 
So, that being said, our star witness today is Commissioner 
Shawn LaTourette, who has the second-toughest job in State government, as 
the Commissioner of the DEP. 
 
 
Commissioner, if you would come forward, we would love to hear 
your thoughts on what the shore of New Jersey has in its future, and what we 
should be doing about it. 
 
 
 
3 
S H A W N    L a T O U R E T T E:  That is a lot of microphones.  
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, and everything is hot, so be careful 
what you say. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Well, first of all, thank you all for the 
invitation to join you today. 
 
 
I think everybody has been attuned to climate change, and the 
risks that we face in New Jersey.  But, then, when I’m out and about the state 
-- and I travel the state a lot.  Just yesterday alone, Senator Durr, I was in 
your district, in Salem County on a farm tour, talking to farmers about some 
of the climate impacts that they’re experiencing.  Then made it from there all 
the way up to Hudson County talking about some of the impacts being 
experienced in Jersey City. 
 
 
And, I think that, as much as we believe we’ve gotten the message 
out from the work that we’ve all done together, between the committees that 
you lead, Senator, and you Assemblyman, and your colleagues, and the work 
being done at DEP -- but sometimes if the radio is not on, folks aren’t hearing 
the song.  So, in case I need to say it again, New Jersey is ground zero for 
some of the worst impacts of climate change.  And, they’re here, and they’re 
happening now.  It’s the single-greatest threat that we face to our 
communities, our economies, our way of life. 
 
 
It was explained again last year in the UN’s sixth assessment 
report.  The year before, in the New Jersey-specific report on climate change, 
distilling for our residents and our leaders the facts.  Because the science is 
clear:  Temperatures are rising; sea level is rising; extreme weather is becoming 
more frequent and intense.  We have to make faster and more considerable 
changes to reduce emissions and, to the purpose of today’s hearing, to build 
 
 
 
4 
our resilience to the climate impacts that we are already experiencing and, let 
me be clear, only get worse from here. 
 
 
It doesn’t matter if we go all solar or all wind or all nuclear.  We 
could have every train electrified, every car electric -- and we should -- we 
could do all that tomorrow, which is a practical impossibility, and the 
conditions still only get worse.  A product of the emissions we’ve already 
placed into the atmosphere, because the 1980s were the lost decade to get 
climate under control and we failed, miserably.  And, so we have no choice 
but to build our resilience. 
 
 
You know, we’re sitting here one year after the remnants of 
Tropical Storm Ida brought New Jersey the deadliest floods that we’ve seen 
in a long time.  It was the second-deadliest natural disaster that our state saw 
in a century.  And, it only gets worse.  Thirty precious lives lost, needlessly.  
And, as we sit here today, the state is just coming out of its fourth heatwave 
of this season.  And, just this week I declared a statewide drought watch.  
And, these alarming conditions, they’re exactly what the scientists, including 
those at DEP, said were coming.  That we’ve been warning policy makers 
about; imploring legislatures and regulators to do more, right? 
 
 
We are experiencing the very extremes the scientists told us 
about:  Incredibly hot and dry conditions that stress our water supplies, our 
crop yields, and our public health, situated between periods of frequent and 
intense rainfalls that overwhelm our aging infrastructure that is undersized, 
causing extreme flooding, destroying property, and, sadly, costing lives.  I 
think we only need to look at the events of the two months alone that make 
it so obvious that our state is struggling to reckon with the reality of a 
changing climate.  The sudden floods that struck Bergen County amid pre-
 
 
 
5 
drought conditions just last month.  An unnamed storm.  The arid conditions 
that are diminishing crop yields in farm-rich Salem County.  The largest 
wildfire in over a decade that destroyed 15,000 acres of our pinelands just 
barely two months ago.  And the 9-mile-long harmful algae bloom that is 
infecting the Millstone River right now and threatening water supplies in 
central New Jersey. 
 
 
We should all be alarmed -- and not because I’m an alarmist.  I 
think our friends in the environmental community, as much as I value their 
partnership, would tell you as much.  I am a pragmatist.  And, it makes good 
economic sense to get this state more ready.  It is going to secure our bond 
rating to build greater resilience; to upgrade our flood hazard rules and our 
stormwater rules.  Because we’re not ready.  But, empowered by sound 
science, a willingness to make wise choices, we can get ready.  We can help 
our communities, our residents, our businesses, become more resilient to a 
changing climate. 
 
 
I think we’re here at the shore, and we’re about to note the 10-
year anniversary of Superstorm Sandy -- after which we immediately revised 
flood rules to elevate structures on the shore on an emergency basis.  And, 
we’re a year from Ida.  And, I travel the state so much.  Just two days ago, in 
Passaic City with Mayor Lora and Assemblyman Schaer, hearing the story 
about how flood conditions in the flood plain at a park where the recently 
crowned prom king and queen were swept away by a sudden flood rush and 
killed.  Ended up in the Passaic River. 
 
 
We have the power now to change this.  But, it only happens one 
way:  through concerted action at all levels of government.  We have the tools 
to make a difference, but we have to be willing to change the status quo.  To 
 
 
 
6 
build a little higher, a little more resilient.  To manage for more stormwater.  
Because we’re getting it now.  And you may hear differently.  So, from some 
colleagues of ours in the business community -- they are wrong, or they are 
lying.  Because everything we build today is based on rainfall standards the 
last data point for which is from 1999.  I could not sit at a bar and order a 
drink at the time our last data point was managed -- or the stormwater for 
which we manage the data point, where that comes from, rather. 
 
 
Yet, in the last 23 years, rainfall has increased between 2 and 10 
percent, depending on where you are in the state of New Jersey.  More in the 
north and the central areas than along the shore and in southern Jersey.  And, 
when we look ahead using a downscaling of reliable climate models -- because 
the science is real, and it is reliable -- that increase goes from 20 to 50 percent.  
If you were to look at the state of New Jersey in your mind’s eye, draw a 
teardrop shape, put it around Millford -- or New Millford, rather.  That’s the 
hardest-hit areas for more chronic inundation.  The communities that 
suffered during Ida and the inland communities that suffered from storm 
surge during Sandy.  The flooding is going to continue.  The Idas and the 
Sandys will come. 
 
 
So, what do we do about that?  It’s not easy, right?  But, we have 
to plan for it.  The sometimes unsexy work of local land-use planning, we 
have to do it holistically.  We have to empower and give resources to every 
regional and local government in this state.  Because there is no one silver 
bullet that is going to protect our communities from the ravages of climate 
change, but there is a network of solutions, and it starts with climate-
resilience planning.  With putting more resources and more force behind the 
law, Senator Smith, that you shepherded, that requires climate vulnerability 
 
 
 
7 
assessments in the municipal master-planning process.  And then from there, 
what we can do is identify where this suite of four things that I’ll explain to 
you are best placed.  We have the power to invest in flood resilience 
infrastructure -- the hard civil engineering projects that are going to help build 
more resilience for any community. 
 
 
But, as I’m sure you’ll hear from other folks today, that alone 
isn’t enough, and we should not put all of our eggs in that basket, to build 
resilience for the shore or for our inland riverine communities.  We have to 
pursue both engineered and natural climate resilience infrastructure; working 
with the Army Corps to continue partnering with them and matching the 
Federal funds that are getting spent -- including the billion dollars that’s 
about to come to New Jersey for just a few projects and a few places.  It won’t 
protect everyone.  We’ve got to continue our work on beach replenishment, 
but that alone isn’t enough.  We need to pursue naturally engineered living 
shorelines that will better protect our communities.  Just continuing to 
replenish sand and watching it get washed away over and over again is not 
the only thing that we should be doing. 
 
 
Some folks will tell you it is spitting into the wind.  They’re not 
wrong.  But, we have to protect our shore economy, too, and that is a way to 
do it.  And, most of that money does come from the Federal government.  
But, we have to protect and enhance the resilience of our natural ecosystems 
as well, because doing that will help us reduce flooding; to address weakened 
wave force; and to reduce heat and to address carbon absorption, just by 
engineering with nature.  It starts with that planning, it helps us to figure out 
where we put -- make the hard, expensive investments in that hard civil 
engineering infrastructure. 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
And, then where we might strategically do more Blue Acres 
buyouts.  That’s the program that DEP runs to get folks out of harm’s way.  
But, we have to ensure that that is used not just as a reactive disaster recovery 
method, but proactively to help get our families out of harm’s way while 
creating more flood storage that can then double as parks and open space, or 
an opportunity to create regional stormwater infrastructure so that 
stormwater management is not only on the back of every developer in this 
state as it is now. 
 
 
The biggest problem with our land-use practices as it relates to 
our climate-resilience needs is our postage stamp by postage stamp approach.  
It does not enable us to really reach the watershed-wide needs for flood 
resilience.  It doesn’t allow us to solve for the circumstances that Passaic City 
will continue to experience.  More kids washed away from that park.  We 
should all find that wholly unacceptable, and we have to modernize our flood 
standards.  We cannot accept developers telling falsehoods and running 
around with their hair on fire because DEP wants to change a rule. 
 
 
We don’t do environmental protection because we love the trees 
-- in fact, environmental protection is the wrong name for our agency.  
Because we don’t protect the environment for the environment’s sake, we 
protect it for peoples’ sake.  Because when we restore the riparian areas or 
protect them, we’re giving the water more places to go; we haven’t done 
enough of that in New Jersey, it’s why we see the flooding now.  So, we must 
build a little higher; we must manage for more stormwater.  It is not going to 
cost a fortune -- if you are hearing that, it’s wrong. 
 
 
To meaningfully confront the challenges before us, there’s one 
thing that it’s going to take that we all need to summon, and that is political 
 
 
 
9 
courage.  Because our leaders have to focus on the long-term growth and 
protection of our communities.  We have to commit ourselves to actions and 
investments that will take time to show their benefits, just like a warming 
climate took time to show us its fury.  We have to acknowledge that it may 
not be possible to measure our success in the next budget or on the next 
ballot.  We have to have confidence.  Confidence that our successes will be 
measured instead in the safety, security, and resilience that we leave our 
children and the communities that they will inherit. 
 
 
I thank you all for this opportunity.  If you hear urgency in my 
voice or passion in any of these words, it is because we are not ready -- but we 
can be.  If we all pitch in, if we do it together.  The only way we ever do 
anything that matters. 
 
 
So, thank you all.  If you have any questions, I’m happy to take 
them. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Commissioner, your words are stunning, 
and we appreciate you being here today.  Please keep up the good work. 
 
 
We have such a tight agenda we’re going to keep the questions 
absolutely to a minimum. 
 
 
Assemblyman Kennedy. 
 
 
Mr. LaTOURETTE:  Thank you, sir. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Thank you. 
 
 
Next, we have Eric Olsen, Director of Conservative Programs, 
and Adrianna Zito-Livingston, Coastal Projects Coordinator. 
E R I C   O L S E N:  Hi, good morning, Chairman Smith and Chairman 
Kennedy and distinguished members of this Committee. 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
My name is Eric Olsen; I am the Director of Conservation 
Programs for the New Jersey Chapter of the Nature Conservancy.  I have 
been working on land and water conservation issues in our great state for 
more than-- 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Speak up, please. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  By the way-- 
 
 
MR. OLSEN:  Do one of these work? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but I wonder -- are they turned on?  
Let’s take a look.  I’m not hearing that tap-tap-tap. 
 
 
MR. OLSEN:  Is that better? 
 
 
AUDIENCE:  Yes. 
 
 
MR. OLSEN:  Thank you. 
 
 
So, on behalf of the Nature Conservancy of New Jersey, I 
applaud Chairman Smith and Chairman Kennedy and Legislative members 
here today for holding this hearing; this is an important topic. 
 
 
TNC, as we’re called, is one of the leading conservation 
organizations in the world, with a presence in all 50 states and over 70 
countries worldwide.  Our mission is to conserve the lands and waters on 
which all life depends by working in a collaborative science-based manner 
with a variety of partners.  In New Jersey, TNC has helped to protect over 
60,000 acres of open space to preserve habitat for biodiversity; we’ve 
removed dams to restore riverine habitats; restored coastal marsh habitat 
using dredge materials; and promoted at the state and local levels the use of 
nature-based solution to reduce the impacts of climate change. 
 
 
As New Jersey experiences the increasing impacts of climate 
change, we want to ensure that New Jersey’s iconic forests, rivers, and coasts 
 
 
 
11 
are healthy, resilient, and connected.  That we have invested in the health of 
our coastal habitats to benefit millions of residents and visitors, and that our 
cities are climate resilient and healthier.  Today, TNC would like to focus on 
the importance of nature-based solutions and making all of our communities 
more resilient while maintaining the valuable habitats, enhancing ecosystem 
and fishery sustainability, providing recreational opportunities, and 
sequestering carbon. 
 
 
From our nation’s capital to our state’s capital, our elected 
leaders -- you all -- have acknowledged the growing impacts caused by climate 
change and have committed to making our cities, our towns, and our homes 
more resilient to anticipate the changes on our horizon.  The Nature 
Conservancy of New Jersey shares the State’s goal of increasing resilience in 
New Jersey and believes that nature can be pivotal to help reduce the risks of 
these impacts statewide. 
 
 
Climate change, we know, will affect everyone.  But, certain 
people in certain places will be affected more than others.  Some areas and 
people are more exposed to climate-related health impacts such as extreme 
heat, flooding from extreme weather events, and tickborne diseases.  We 
strongly encourage expanded efforts to ensure that the needs of our socially 
vulnerable communities are addressed holistically and implemented 
thoughtfully with equity in mind. 
 
 
We’re making good progress.  Governor Murphy took steps to 
address the State’s climate change issues by signing Executive Orders 89 and 
100, and our Legislature are reentering New Jersey back to the Regional 
Greenhouse Gas Initiative -- major steps.  The Executive Orders led to the 
development of a New Jersey Climate Change Resilience Strategy, and a 
 
 
 
12 
Coastal Resilience Plan, and a call for regulatory action to address 
precipitation, flooding, and temperature impacts that we are projected to 
experience.   
 
 
However, there is more to be done -- as you know, that’s why 
we’re here.  On our coast, the Nature Conservancy is collaborating with 
agencies and organizations with similar goals in applying what we’ve learned 
from our on-the-ground restoration projects to plan, implement, and 
advocate for increased marsh-restoration projects throughout coastal New 
Jersey.  Championing nature-based solutions like restoring marshes along our 
coast are a win-win for addressing climate change.  These restoration tactics 
are practical, effective, and provide numerous benefits to communities.  
Increasing the health of New Jersey salt marshes will protect peoples’ homes 
and livelihoods from changing climate conditions by absorbing water, storing 
carbon, and slowing down wave energy. 
 
 
From a broader level, it is TNC’s goal to see New Jersey’s marshes 
protected, restored, and enhanced systematically, similar to how our beaches 
are in the Beach Replenishment Program.  New Jersey has taken steps and 
has proposed solutions to many of the issues facing our state.  The State 
released their coastal resilience plan and the State’s Climate Adaptation 
Strategy that calls for increasing nature-based solutions and nature-based 
resilience measures.  Our organization strongly supports many of the 
recommendations in this Climate Resilience Strategy and strongly encourages 
implementation. 
 
 
I wanted to highlight a few resilience actions we particularly 
support, and would like to see attention and more resources provided for a 
successful execution.  First, we would like to see the acceleration of marsh 
 
 
 
13 
restoration through regional sediment management.  Nature Conservancy 
shares the Department of Environmental Protection’s goal of ensuring that 
valuable sediment dredged from our boat channels remains in the estuarine 
system as a resource for back-bay habitats.  Our organization is engaged with 
both NJ DEP and NJ DOT, as well as stakeholders across the state, on how 
to best manage clean dredge materials to benefit our salt marshes.  The goal 
is to align the needs of our declining marshes with the need to maintain these 
navigation channels for more resilient coastal communities.  Much like the 
way New Jersey engineers with nature along the ocean front to maintain our 
healthy beaches and dunes, the State should invest in developing a 
comprehensive program on how to best engineer with nature to maintain our 
healthy marshes.  
 
 
Second, we should invest in an identification of shovel-ready salt 
marsh restoration projects to help inform future funding of coastal restoration 
projects, NJ DEP has begun the process of identifying coastal restoration 
opportunities through the Coastal Ecological Restoration and Adaptation 
Plans called CERAP.  Current efforts will allow the identification of an initial 
set of priorities based on the ecological resilience in carbon sequestration 
benefits.  However, an ongoing effort is needed to take opportunities to 
shovel-ready projects providing resources to plan, design, and permit these 
projects. 
 
Third, NJ DEP should conduct a review of regulations to facilitate this 
restoration.  Our organization commends the department’s current efforts 
under the NJ PAC initiative to review and improve its regulations to improve 
the permitting process for coastal restoration and enhancement projects.  
However, we need to begin the process of adopting these NJ PACs. 
 
 
 
14 
 
 
Fourth, the identification of sustained funding for resilience 
initiative -- I’m sure you hear this a lot -- there are a couple of ideas that we’ve 
brought here.  The success of our coastal restoration, most notably the 
restoration enhancement of these coastal habitats will depend on sustained 
long-term funding for these efforts.  There are five areas that we’ve identified 
for deeper assessments. 
 
 
First, we’ve been lucky to have the infrastructure funds, the IIJA 
that’s passed, that’s a once-in-a-lifetime -- once-in-a-generation -- opportunity 
to establish a coordinated, focused effort to bring Federal dollars to New 
Jersey for climate change work as soon as possible.  However, there does not 
appear to be a major urgency in our state that’s necessary to make sure that 
we can make the most of this opportunity available to us.  We encourage that 
there’s a more coordinated, more ambitious push within the State to secure 
these funds for this work. 
 
 
Second, funding and technical assistant resources are desperately 
needed for the development of local and/or regional resilience plans, at the 
municipal level.  Potential funding models to consider, including the 
municipal vulnerability program established in the state of Massachusetts, 
which provides incentives to cities and towns to undergo action-oriented 
resilience plans. 
 
 
Third funding source:  The New Jersey Shore Protection Fund 
has primarily been focused on funding necessary beach and dune 
nourishment projects on the barrier islands.  This is critical work.  The review 
of the program and associated funding could create a vehicle to facilitate 
increase in investment, and the health of coastal salt marshes throughout our 
state. 
 
 
 
15 
 
 
Fourth, to help support the added cost of restoring coastal 
habitats to the beneficial use of dredge material, the State might want to 
consider funding sources for dredging beyond the gas tax. 
 
 
Fifth, and finally, RGGI -- I mentioned that earlier -- we should 
consider having a percentage of offsets allocated to carbon capture projects 
directly on State lands.  The State owns a lot of salt marsh in our state. 
 
 
Which brings me to my final point, which is an increased 
investment in coastal wildlife-management areas.  The state of New Jersey 
owns most of the non-federal salt marshes in our state, and to ensure that 
these habitats persist into the future in the face of climate change, New Jersey 
should expand management of its coastal management wildlife areas to take 
sea-level rise into account.  For both the habitat benefits they provide, as well 
as the social and economic benefits to neighboring communities.  Ensuring 
the successful use of clean dredge material to restore these salt marshes for 
prior sufficient capacity.  While conservation partners can fill this role in the 
short term, as nonprofits, a long-term solution is necessary, and the Division 
of Fish and Wildlife will need more capacity to address these future needs on 
wildlife-management areas. 
 
 
As the Commissioner mentioned, nearly 10 years ago, 
Superstorm Sandy left an everlasting impact on our great state.  Nearly a year 
ago, Hurricane Ida hit New Jersey and claimed the lives of 27 of our residents.  
New Jersey continues to see the impacts of climate change, and, 
unfortunately, the increase in frequency and storms and the magnitude of 
their damage.  We have the opportunity to prepare for the potential impacts 
-- let’s do so now. 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
And, with me today, I have Adrianna Zito-Livingston, our 
Coastal Projects Coordinator, who will speak to the value of our coastal 
marshes, the work TNC is doing on the ground, and the impact it’s having 
on New Jersey coastal salt marshes. 
 
 
I thank you for your time and your commitment to New Jersey’s 
environment. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
We only have to ask all speakers to try and condense and 
summarize; a lot of people want to speak. 
A D R I A N N A   Z I T O - L I V I N G S T O N:  Absolutely. 
 
 
Thank you for the invitation and opportunity to speak with you 
today.  Is my volume okay?  Great. 
 
 
So, as Eric said, I am excited to have this opportunity to share a 
little bit with you about the work that the Conservancy and our partners have 
been doing to advance the practice of beneficial use and really accelerate salt 
marsh restoration while there’s still time for our coastal salt marshes. 
 
 
So, coastal wetlands are an iconic and important feature along 
New Jersey’s coast -- shore.  Seventy-five percent of New Jersey’s coastlines 
are fringed by salt marsh habitats.  It’s an area of about 200,000 acres; it used 
to be a lot more, but that’s what we’re left with.  These meadow-like grass-
dominated habitats are visible from the Garden State Parkway and our barrier 
islands.  They are a valuable resource for wildlife habitat, but they also act as 
a buffer to protect coastal communities. 
 
 
As Eric identified, most of the state salt marshes are actually in 
Federal or State ownership.  That puts our state in a really unique--  We have 
a unique obligation and a unique opportunity to regionally plan a strategy to 
 
 
 
17 
keep our salt marshes in place for their multiple benefits, for our communities 
and for the wildlife that depend on them. 
 
 
So, it’s important to understand how salt marshes work, and I 
will keep my ecology lesson very, very brief.  It’s important to understand 
that marshes are not merely habitat, a place where salt marsh plants live.  
They are literally created by and sustained by marsh plants.  So, the growth 
ranges -- the narrow growth ranges -- of our salt marsh plants are intrinsically 
linked to the persistence of these habitats, which is something that our coastal 
program is very narrowly focused on.  So, keeping these marshes in place 
means keeping happy plants.  That means they can’t be too wet for too long 
in the tidal cycle. 
 
 
Marsh plants are specially adapted to catch sediment that exists 
in the water column when water comes into the marshes on the tides, it 
carries with it valuable sediments.  The plant’s leaves help slow down that 
water, and then material settles out around the root systems.  The roots of 
these plants are especially designed to hold the sediment in place and pile up, 
creating very rich peat layers, which sequester carbon.  So, the marshes, over 
time, every time they’re flushed with water have the ability to grow vertically 
with small, incremental changes.  Our salt marshes have the ability to be 
resilient and to persist.  The challenges they’re facing now are related to the 
accelerated rate of sea level.  So, the sea-level rise is happening faster than 
these marshes have the ability to keep pace.  So, there are a number of studies, 
the State Climate Science Report has a lot of important details and a great 
synthesis on the threats facing our coastal wetlands and the trends in sea-
level rise. 
 
 
 
18 
 
 
But, we’re looking at about a foot, maybe more, by 2050.  And, 
that’s a very urgent situation for salt marshes.  So, in salt marshes, where salt 
marsh grasses can live is really dictated by elevation.  And, we’re talking 
inches, not feet.  So, as sea levels are rising and that rate is accelerating, 
marshes are literally drowning.  Add to that our coastal management practice 
of managing navigable channels and removing that sediment, previously 
placing them in, essentially, landfills -- confined disposal facilities, due to the 
Clean Water Act. 
 
 
That practice has added, or exacerbated, the problem by 
removing sediment from the system, where it could normally be moved 
around consistently by storm events and on regular tides.  Removing that 
resource--  So, we’re in a very exciting place now in New Jersey where our 
navigation managers, NJ DOT and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have 
made commitments to keep that sediment in the system and to utilize that 
sediment in innovative restoration techniques, like beneficial use of dredge 
material. 
 
 
So, I’m very excited sitting here before you today.  Since 
Superstorm Sandy, we have implemented pilot projects demonstrating the 
success of this technique to bring plants back to marshes and places where 
they had been lost, due to elevation loss with sea-level rise, and we’re applying 
what we know to compare notes with other--  So, it’s not the Conservancy or 
DEP alone that have been doing these projects;  U.S. Fish and Wildlife service 
has been doing these projects, and we’re convening all those partners together 
to compare notes and figure out the best way to maximize the multiple 
benefits for salt marshes and retain those, in addition to the salt marshes 
themselves.  We’re not looking for flat sediment disposal on our marshes, 
 
 
 
19 
we’re looking for retaining those important characteristics of marshes.  And, 
if we retain the coastal salt marshes in the state through these techniques, 
and everyone works together to get it right both from the dredging industry 
and the ecological side -- and we have a number of activities in those veins 
that I will not bore you with today.  We’re working on it as hard as we can, 
it’s my every day. 
 
 
We’re in a position to keep the coastal protection benefits, the 
fisheries, nursery benefits, and the carbon sequestration benefits intact in our 
marshes in this state, which is very important to our resilience. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you so much for your comments.  
Very, very helpful. 
 
 
Our third group is New Jersey Future.  Pete Kasabach, who is the 
Executive Director, and Kim Irby, the Policy Manager.  I’d like to hear your 
views on what we should be doing. 
P E T E R   K A S A B A C H:  Good morning. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Go ahead, Pete. 
 
 
MR. KASABACH:  Well, thank you very much for having us.  To 
both Chairs and to the Committee members, we really are appreciative of the 
opportunity to speak before you, and really appreciative of the fact that you 
guys came together to have this important discussion about a really critical 
topic. 
 
 
My name is Pete Kasabach, I am the Executive Director of New 
Jersey Future.  New Jersey Future is a statewide smart growth and sustainable 
development organization, and as I’m sure you can appreciate, climate 
change is integral to both of those smart growth and sustainable 
development.  We work at the state and local policy level as well as helping 
 
 
 
20 
local governments implement both sustainable development and smart 
growth. 
 
 
We are here today not just representing New Jersey Future, but 
also the Rise to Resilience Coalition.  This is a coalition with the singular 
focus of advocating for climate change adaptation.  I would like to thank our 
partners at The Waterfront Alliance who are a backbone staff to that 
organization and to that Coalition.  The top priority of the Rise to Resilience 
Coalition is flood disclosure, and that’s what we are here to talk about today: 
how New Jersey needs a transparent disclosure process for both prospective 
renters and buyers.  Today, we are going to talk about why this is so 
important, and how we are lagging behind other states.  We’re going to share 
important background data with you and emphasize the urgency of moving 
forward on flood disclosure.  We’re going to then go into the elements of 
what a good flood-disclosure policy would look like, and we’ll talk about the 
gaps in New Jersey’s current policy and how these gaps can be filled. 
 
 
So, I would like to introduce now my colleague, Kim Irby, who 
will go into more details and information about this. 
K I M B E R L E Y   I R B Y:  Thank you, Pete, and thank you to the Joint 
Committee for allowing us to speak today. 
 
 
So, as you all know, due to New Jersey’s geography and relatively 
high levels of development, our state is faced with threats from various types 
of flooding -- coastal, stormwater, and riverine.  And, as we’ve seen in recent 
years, especially with remnants of Hurricane Ida and what the past speakers 
have commented on, flooding can be absolutely devastating to the quality of 
life in New Jerseyans, which is partly dependent on the dwellings in which 
they live. 
 
 
 
21 
 
 
So, because the inception of the National Flood Insurance 
Program in 1968, in 2019, New Jersey home and business owners filed more 
than 160,000 flood insurance claims that totaled over $5 billion.  In 2018, 
the Union of Concerned Scientists estimated, based on a high sea level rise 
scenario, that 62,000 homes in New Jersey will be at risk of chronic flooding 
over the next 30 years, and that figure is expected to nearly quadruple to over 
245,000 homes by the end of the century.  Floods have been incredibly costly 
to some New Jerseyans in the past few decades, and more will likely face 
rising costs in the decades to come.  A 2019 report by Rhodium Group 
estimates that the expected average annual loss to New Jersey from hurricane-
related wind and flood damage today is likely $670 million to $1.3 billion 
higher than it would have been had sea levels and hurricane activity in the 
1980s remained constant.  So, regardless of the progress that we make on our 
greenhouse gas emission targets going forward, a non-trivial level of increased 
flood risk can be expected. 
 
 
In a report really stressed last month by the Natural Resources 
Defense Council shows that New Jerseyans who buy homes with a history of 
flooding can expect to pay tens of thousands more dollars in flood damages 
over the course of their mortgage than the average homeowner.  So, based on 
a climate scenario representing current climate conditions, the report 
estimates that the expected average annual loss for New Jersey homes with 
prior flood damage is about $1,700 compared to only about $100 for the 
average home.  So, over the course of a 30-year mortgage, this equates to 
roughly $50,000 of expected damages to a previously flooded home, 
compared to only about $3,000 for the average one.  And, keep in mind that 
 
 
 
22 
these costs could double or even triple when factoring in the worsening 
impacts of climate change. 
 
 
So, sea levels rise and heavy rainstorms become more common, 
many New Jersey communities can expect increasing vulnerability to flooding 
and thus increase financial liability.  For homebuyers and renters to be able 
to make good decisions when choosing where their family will call home, they 
need sufficient information about flood risk.  So, strong flood disclosure laws 
require sellers to inform potential buyers about any flooding damage to their 
property that they’re aware of, and landlords to inform potential buyers of 
the same.  The laws can also require disclosure of whether renters or buyers 
will be required to buy flood insurance for the property, or whether the 
property is in an area projected to flood more frequently or severely. 
 
 
Currently, there are 29 states that have flood-disclosure laws in 
place, including our neighbors Delaware and Pennsylvania, and, although 
New York is not on that list yet, they have made progress on disclosure in 
the last legislative session.  So, in a state where flood risks are high, like in 
New Jersey, disclosure laws are an important first step to understanding how 
one might be impacted by climate change.  These laws provide consumer 
protections and transparency around climate risks. 
 
 
Recently, FEMA released model state requirements for disclosing 
flood risk during real estate transactions, and that guidance is intended for 
use by elected and career officials responsible for state-level legislative action.  
So, that guidance lists 10 flood-risk disclosures that are commonly found in 
state disclosure laws, and/or legally mandated disclosure forms.  So, examples 
of specifically those disclosures include whether the property is in a flood 
hazard area, and/or the FEMA flood zone in which the property is located; 
 
 
 
23 
the presence of an active flood insurance policy for the property; and the 
current cost of flood insurance premiums, previous flood events and/or flood-
related property damage, and any past disaster-related aid provided, 
including dates and amounts, and those are just a few examples. 
 
 
So, in terms of New Jersey, the level of disclosure here is much 
weaker compared to the national standard.  So, for buyers, there is some level 
of disclosure that takes place when properties are sold by real estate 
professionals, but the questions on the disclosure statement are not numerous 
or specific enough to give potential buyers the information they need.  So, in 
the 107 questions on the seller’s property condition disclosure statement, 
there are only three questions regarding flooding.  Those refer to property 
damage from fire, smoke, wind, or flood; whether the property is in a flood 
hazard zone; and if there are drainage or flood problems affecting the 
property.  These questions mostly require a simple yes or no response with 
little to no further information provided.  Additionally, there’s no question 
concerning flood insurance claims and requirements and no guidance on 
future flood risks. 
 
 
And, for renters, the disclosure requirements are even more 
sparse.  There’s only one, which is whether or not the unit is in a flood zone, 
which is already ambiguous on its own.  Additionally, standard renter’s 
insurance policies exclude coverage for flood damage, which many renters 
may not be aware of.  Vulnerable communities in particular have expressed 
concerns regarding the growing cost of flood damage and insurance policies, 
as well as never being warned about the risk they face when they move into 
a new home.  Much of these concerns can be attributed to an inadequate 
emphasis on flood risk in the current disclosure statements. 
 
 
 
24 
 
 
So, to strengthen the current flood-disclosure framework in New 
Jersey, we need legislation that requires additional and more robust questions 
on the current seller disclosure document, and requires lessors to provide a 
specific flood-disclosure form before the lease is signed.  Specifically, 
disclosures should include all of those elements in the FEMA guidance that I 
mentioned earlier, as well as information pointing to online and updated 
future flood-projection maps and data so that they can understand a future 
increase in risk. 
 
 
The legislation should be specific to flood risks, with the aim of 
raising awareness about climate risks, and it should also aim to enhance 
consumer protections and transparency and real estate transactions, and help 
to change patterns of behavior related to flood insurance, with the ultimate 
goal of reducing burdensome costs for tenants and home owners.  In many 
states, flood-disclosure bills have passed in bipartisan efforts, with support 
from housing groups, the real estate industry, and environmental groups.  
And, recently, the National Resources Defense Council conducted a poll of 
New Jerseyans and found that flood disclosure has broad-based support both 
when framed generally and specifically to a change in the law. 
 
 
So, from that poll, 83 percent of respondents agree that property 
owners should be legally required to share information about a property’s 
past flood history to prospective buyers or tenants, and about 59 percent 
support changing the current law to require property owners to do so.  The 
poll also found that flood disclosure has broad bipartisan support and that 
voters, particularly those in South Jersey, see flood disclosure as having a 
positive impact on home buyers and tenants in coastal communities. 
 
 
 
25 
 
 
So, in summary, flood disclosure is increasingly pursued as a 
strategy to protect communities, individuals, and local economies.  The New 
Jersey Climate Change Resilience Strategy references flood disclosure as a 
law, and with further resilience and allow potential buyers to fully evaluate 
monthly mortgage costs and weigh the disaster-recovery costs prior to making 
an offer on a property.  As New Jersey works to advance both decarbonization 
and resilience efforts, we must ensure that residents are able to make 
informed decisions for themselves and their families in the wake of grand 
climate risks. 
 
 
New legislation with long overdue reforms would ensure that 
New Jersey homebuyers and renters are fully informed about the ever-
increasing risks of flooding so that they can protect their belongings and 
families. 
 
 
And I will yield to Pete for brief closing. 
 
 
MR. KASABACH:  I just wanted to add a couple of quick points, 
which is that we started the conversations with Senator Smith’s office and 
staff about what a good flood-disclosure policy would look like and how that 
could move forward, and we’ve also initiated conversations with a large 
number of stakeholders across New Jersey. 
 
 
To the point that Kim made, this is generally a move and a policy 
that has widespread support across the development communities, the 
environmental communities, local communities as well. 
 
 
So, we’re really looking forward to working with you all on this 
and we hope that it can move forward expeditiously. 
 
 
Thanks. 
 
 
MS. IRBY:  Thank you. 
 
 
 
26 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Sure. 
 
 
Next, we have Ray Cantor from New Jersey Business and 
Industry -- Government Affairs. 
R A Y M O N D   C A N T O R, ESQ.:  Thank you, Chairman; members of 
the Committee. 
 
 
My name is Ray Cantor, I am with the New Jersey Business and 
Industry Association.  I appreciate the opportunity to speak here today, and 
I will try to keep my remarks brief. 
 
 
I just want to emphasize three points here today.  One, sea-level 
rise is a reality.  Two, we need to take regulatory and other actions to address 
that, but third, there’s no need at this moment to retreat from the Jersey 
Shore.  Let me address each one. 
 
 
Sea-level rise, again, it’s a reality.  New Jersey has been -- much 
of the eastern seaboard -- has been sinking by 1 foot for well over 1,000 years, 
and no matter what we think about anything else we’re going to continue to 
sink 1 foot over the next century, and the next century, and the next century.  
That cannot be avoided.  What we need to figure out is how much more is 
sea level going to rise relative to the land in New Jersey.  We have talked to 
experts, hired a forecaster, and we believe -- and based on all the latest data 
from the IPCC and the Federal government -- that we’re going to see 
additional sea-level rise in New Jersey of 1-2 feet.  So, that means we’re going 
to have between 2- and 3-foot sea level rise by the end of this century, and 
we need to address that. 
 
 
Our recommendations are we should be changing our flood 
standards.  We believe at this point to go up 2 foot, we believe 2 foot is a 
prudent level to do right now.  If trends and observations show that sea-level 
 
 
 
27 
rise is going at a higher rate than anticipated, we have 80 years to make those 
adjustments, or at least we have decades to make those adjustments.  So, we 
believe that 2 foot is a standard we should be adopting right now. 
 
 
We also believe that everything that was said earlier about the 
adaptation and using natural measures, you know, to enhance our coastal 
wetlands, using natural measures to enhance our estuaries -- for far too long 
those natural measures have been overlooked and have not been taking 
advantage of; we need to do that.  We need to enhance how much money we 
put into our shore-protection funds, even though those are only short-term 
protections, they’re important protections, and the $25 million dedication 
can easily be doubled to $50 million.  That is almost a no-brainer of what we 
need to do.  But we also need to look at other engineering controls, be they 
on the property level or on a regional level.  And, we need to do so in a manner 
that allows for those engineering controls to be changed over time.  We 
should be looking for--  Build in uncertainty into our engineering techniques.  
So, if we’re finding a climate change or a sea-level rise, rather, is accelerating 
quicker than we think it is, then those measures, engineering designs, can be 
modified and made even more resilient.  So, again, we should be engineering 
with uncertainty in mind. 
 
 
And, again, I’ll just repeat as well, given the sea-level rise -- which 
is alarming, which is going to cost, which is a problem and needs to be 
addressed -- there is still no need to retreat wholly from the New Jersey shore.  
There are certain areas of the Jersey coast and our riverine areas that cannot 
be protected.  It is economically disadvantageous to try and protect them, 
and we have a Blue Acres Program that is out there and that should be buying 
up those properties.  Again, we believe that even more money should be going 
 
 
 
28 
to the Blue Acres Program, and we should be taking people out of harm’s way 
and returning some of these areas that probably should never have been built 
in the first place, and restoring them back to nature. 
 
 
So, again, just to emphasize:  Sea-level rise is happening; we need 
to address it through a combination of natural measures and engineering 
controls and shore protection, but there’s no need at this point in time to 
retreat from the Jersey Shore. 
 
 
So, I thank you, Chairman, for this opportunity, and I look 
forward to continuing this conversation. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, thank you for your remarks and your 
brevity. 
 
 
So, we have six people who signed up to talk about this portion 
of the program.  We have 10 minutes left on this portion.  If we don’t get 
heard, not to worry.  Every single hearing of the Environment Committee we 
have climate change, and people will be able to get their views in.  There’s no 
fair way to do this in terms of who speaks first, so Chairman Kennedy and I 
just put everybody in alphabetical order.  And, we’ll get as many done as 
possible.  If we finish the second half of the program earlier, we will put the 
remainder up for comments. 
 
 
Tim Dillingham, American Littoral Society, and with the 
comment that brevity is the soul of wit. 
T I M   D I L L I N G H A M:  Good morning, Mr. Chairman, Chairman 
Kennedy, and members of the Committees, thank you very much for the 
opportunity to speak. 
 
 
The American Littoral Society is a coastal conservation 
organization.  We’re based in Sandy Hook, we work from New York down 
 
 
 
29 
the Delaware Bay.  We’re very involved in adaptation and climate issues.  
Right now, we are conducting 15 separate adaptation, coastal-resiliency, and 
habitat-restoration projects.  The biggest one is in Bivalve, in Commercial 
Township, where we are working to integrate marsh restoration, oyster reef 
restoration, and breakwaters to help protect the oyster fleet and the 
commercial interests there, as well as boost the ecological value of the site.  
We have been involved in restoration of beaches for horseshoe crabs and 
shorebirds along the Delaware Bay, and currently we have a project in Forked 
River and Lacey Township helping to protect the community which is quickly 
eroding away and falling in the Barnegat Bay through building oyster reefs. 
 
 
I shared with the Chairman some pictures of this -- I will get this 
all out to you electronically -- just to show you.  Our efforts (indiscernible) 
we’re a proofing concept, right, to show that this idea of building with nature 
can both provide resiliency, can protect the natural ecological values of our 
coastline as well as the economic interest in our communities.  And, so far it’s 
been very, very successful. 
 
 
I want to thank the Commissioner for his comments; they were 
great, they were passionate; and, they were right on target about the need to 
move forward and to take steps.  From our experiences, I would recommend 
a couple things we need to think about.  Particularly, as we look at Federal 
dollars that might come into the State, and really positioning ourselves to 
take advantage of that.  We always hear about New Jersey paying into 
Washington and not getting as much back, and here’s an opportunity to 
address a critical crisis that we face, and to do it well. 
 
 
One is really need capacity.  The Department needs capacity.  
They do, effectively, work with ourselves, with the TNC and others, in 
 
 
 
30 
partnership.  But, to really take advantage of the dollars that are available, 
take advantage of the moment, they’re going to need additional capacity.  
Both to manage the State lands that we already own for carbon sequestration 
purposes and resiliency.  So, I hope you all will think about that as we go 
forward on it. 
 
 
There’s a huge need to focus, right?  I’m glad to hear Mr. 
Cantor’s recognition that there are places that can’t be defended and ought 
to be reverted back to nature for the capacity that nature can provide us in 
helping to protect our built communities that are adjacent to it.  We’ve lost 
over 50 percent of the tidal wetlands base in the state of New Jersey that was 
here at the time that the first Europeans showed up.  That’s a tremendous 
opportunity to go back and restore that for all the values that you heard 
people explain today. 
 
 
And then, lastly, this idea of technical assistance.  I sit as the Co-
Chair of a group called the New Jersey Coastal Resiliency Collaborative.  A 
lot of academics, a lot of practitioners, and the idea is to try to make technical 
capacity available to, particularly, municipalities, to integrate both risk 
assessments, adaptation approaches, teach them how to do it, empower them 
to do it.  Because so much of our local control, local decision making, rests 
there.  They don’t have that capacity innately.  A lot of it can be complex, 
but, there’s a tremendous brain trust in this state that just needs folks -- and 
broad and made available to folks that are actually responsible, and I think, 
in most cases, willing to take on this challenge of how do we adapt to the 
impacts we’ve already built into the atmosphere and the climate and look to 
the future to ensure we have a resilient, safe coast that provides us both with 
 
 
 
31 
the natural values that we all love and enjoy and gives us a place to live that 
we’re safe and we can use safely. 
 
 
Thank you very much for your time, I appreciate the 
opportunity, and I’m obviously available for any questions you might have. 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Tom Fote.  New Jersey Anglers. 
T H O M A S   P.   F O T E:  My name is Tom Fote, I basically sit as the 
Governor’s appointee to Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission.  I’ve 
done that for almost 34 years continuously, with a few breaks in between.  I 
also serve at MFAC, which is the Marine Fishery Advisory Council, and the 
Secretary of Commerce on Fisheries issues and NOAH issues. 
 
 
I spend a lot of my time on climate change and how it affects fish 
populations and what’s going on there, and a lot of the problems we have is 
in the nursery areas, because we have lost the impact of the way they can 
basically breed because of loss of habitat -- marshes and things like that.  
We’re seeing that we do the right things as far as controlling fishermen and 
their fishing habitats and what they can do, but we can’t solve the problem. 
 
 
We put heavy restrictions on summer flounder, black sea bass, I 
can go on with the list, and it doesn’t seem to do the job.  We’re not getting 
the recruitment, and that’s because the nursery areas are affected by warmer 
water and loss of habitat.  We need to do that to restore the fisheries.  You 
can’t do on the backs of fishermen both commercial and recreational, because 
it’s just not working.  I mean, I volunteered to do these jobs years ago with 
the idea that we were rebuilding these stocks and 34 years later I’m fully 
depressed because I’ve gone just the opposite way.  We’re in more and more 
crisis with every one of the species that we’re dealing with. 
 
 
 
32 
 
 
And, the problem is we’re seeing species in New Jersey that we 
never saw before.  You can go out and catch cobia here; you can go out and 
catch all kind of triple (indiscernible) and your basic catch fish that are 
supposed to be in Florida.  They’re now coming up.  We’ve got a manatee 
that usually makes a tour of New Jersey every year from Florida and goes 
back.  But we should be looking at when (indiscernible) this. 
 
 
And, I’ll just point out two small facts.  Surf clam industry in 
New Jersey was worth $230-240 million from surf clams we harvested in 
State waters.  That is gone.  Because of the warm water, they have moved out 
of State waters, they’ve moved north, and farther out to sea.  We had a viable 
lobster industry -- not as well as Maine, but we had a viable lobster industry 
in this state, and basically we have seen that collapse.  I mean, we’ve gone 
from--  I get half the number of permits from the last 10 years, and 
recruitment hasn’t been done.  We don’t see baby lobsters in the last 15 
years.  If it was managed instead by the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries 
Commission, by NOAH, we would have shut the fishery down in New Jersey, 
Maryland, Delaware, New York, and Massachusetts, all the way up to 
Massachusetts at the southern end. 
 
 
So, those species are basically (indiscernible), and the 
recreational industries are saying, “We’ve lost party boats, charter boats, 
tackle stores, and the industries they represent.”  And we need to basically 
(indiscernible).  Recreational fishing is worth $1.3 billion to the state of New 
Jersey.  We have 800,000 anglers that live in the state, another 400,000 or 
500,000 that come from out of state, and the commercial industry supplies 
fish for all our fish markets and all our restaurants in here, so we need to 
basically support them. 
 
 
 
33 
 
 
And, with that, I’ll make it brief and get off the table, and thank 
you for this time. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Tom. 
 
 
So, the first hour was to be dedicated to climate.  I have four 
other speakers who wanted to speak, and if we can finish the two bills we’ll 
go back.  I would point out that we have a very detailed position paper from 
Doug O’Malley from Environment New Jersey with some terrific suggestions; 
everybody should read that when they get a chance.  And, Doug, you’re 
actually the next man alphabetically, but we have to try and get our job done, 
so we’re going to do the two bills next. 
 
 
First bill will be the accelerated renewable portfolio standard, 
which is S2978.  In a nutshell, when you accelerate the renewable portfolio 
standard, you make New Jersey energy generators go to renewable energy and 
noncarbon energy -- which means nuclear -- faster, and get us out of the fossil 
fuel electric generation business. 
 
 
So, a pile of people who signed up.  And, for the record, some do 
not want to speak.  Richard Lawton, New Jersey Sustainable Business Council 
-- in favor, no need to testify.  Ben Ghiano, MAREC, Mid Atlantic Renewable 
Energy Coalition -- in favor, no need to testify.  And, then we have people 
who do have a need to testify.  I’d ask you to be brief; we have no more than 
30 minutes on this topic, and there’s a pile of people who want to speak.  So, 
brevity is the soul of wit. 
 
 
Fred DeSanti, New Jersey Solar Policy (sic) Coalition. 
 
 
Fred. 
F R E D   D e S A N T I:  Thank you, Senator, good morning.  Good morning 
to Chairman Kennedy as well, good to see you again. 
 
 
 
34 
 
 
Again, my name is Fred DeSanti, I’m representing New Jersey 
Solar Energy Coalition.  I will be extremely brief. 
 
 
I would like to start out by saying the first time I read this bill, it 
really knocked me on the floor.  Because I had never thought about the fact 
that-- 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Speak up. 
 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  The first time I read the bill, it really knocked 
me on the floor, because I never thought about this in the context of the cost 
and the logic of why we are buying class one energy renewable credits and 
forcing people to pay for them at a cost of, you know, $250 to $300 million 
a year when, in fact, there’s never been any debate -- nuclear does not produce 
carbon.  So why do we include it?  And, when you look at the fact that, right 
now, the people of New Jersey are paying $300 million a year for the zero 
emission credit -- which we certainly support, because we don’t want to see 
these plants close down -- you add that to the renewable energy credit, we’re 
paying over half a billion dollars a year, and there’s just no requirement, no 
necessity, to pay for class one requirements. 
 
 
Now, I’m going to give you the punchline on this bill.  We’ve 
done a lot of data mining over the last couple of days, I’ve worked with some 
of the folks at Steve Gable’s office, NJR, SEIA, and looked at these numbers 
hard.  And, you really can’t tell what’s happening here until you look at the 
numbers of what this does to the markets.  But, it does two things:  One, this 
bill would save New Jersey ratepayers in excess of $250 million a year, $250 
million a year that could better be used for things like resiliency that the 
Commissioner talked about.  And, secondly -- which is stunning -- it gets us 
to 100 percent renewable energy -- clean energy, rather -- by 2035.  That’s 
 
 
 
35 
15 years ahead of the statutory requirement right now.  I mean, these are 
compelling issues. 
 
 
Now, I’d like to take you through the data very quickly, because 
I know there’s a number of folks in the audience who are concerned about 
the implications of having a 50 percent requirement on in-state.  And, you 
know, to get to that answer quickly, there is no requirement in 2030 to buy 
in-state, because we actually flipped to zero.  So, I know you’ve got a copy of 
this, I would like to very quickly go through the top line of this to show you 
how it works. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Very quickly. 
 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Very quickly. 
 
 
In 2030, we go from a requirement of 72 million megawatt hours 
for the class one calculations down to 41,000 because nuclear represents 43 
percent of the energy generation in the state.  Right now, that mandate is for 
50 percent, but in actuality we’re well over 60 percent by virtue of the fact 
that we’re going to back out of the nuclear credits.  Now, as you know, the 
way these calculations are made -- first of all, you reduce the SREC credits, 
you reduce the TREC credits, all the renewables get backed out of that 
calculation. 
 
 
And, in here, we have a major impact from offshore wind.  
Offshore wind by 2030 starts to generate almost 30 million renewable energy 
credits, class ones -- counted as class ones.  They’re ORECs, but they’re 
counted as class ones.  And, what this does is, it actually flips the numbers 
negative.  So, in 2030, people behind me, a lot of them are concerned that 
we have to buy 50 percent of our credits.  There is no requirement to buy 
credits, because we now have an excess.  And, when you have an excess, the 
 
 
 
36 
market goes to zero.  So, from 2030, all the way out, we have a zero 
requirement, it gets up to the point in 2035 where we have an excess of 11 
million and when you add that to what will be in the renewable mix at that 
point in time, we’re at 102 percent, 15 years ahead. 
 
 
Now, there are a couple of things that I think we need to look at 
in this bill.  Number one, this does great violence to the SREC community, 
and as you know, Senator, you have S419, which is the bill that -- 39, right, 
thank you -- which is the market balancing bill.  This will considerably reduce 
the SREC requirements so we’re going to have to include, I think, the tenants 
of that bill which already passed the Senate into this bill so it doesn’t do 
violence to that market.  Larry Barth from NJR is going to talk a little bit 
more about that, I think, but that’s very important to take into account, 
otherwise it’s going to hit that market hard, and that’s all New Jersey. 
 
 
The second thing is our obligations to the regional market.  I 
mean, PJM class one market is a very important market.  This flips it from a 
positive 12 million -- 90 percent of which is out-of-state purchases, as you 
know, at the cost of probably a quarter of a billion dollars -- this flips this to 
zero overnight.  That’s going to do tremendous--  That’s a very abrupt change, 
as you might expect, and it’s going to really, I think, turn a lot of 
circumstances on their head, particularly with hedges and some things that 
people already have, financial vehicles. 
 
 
So, I think what we need to do is think about the impact on the 
regional PJM market, and you might want to consider some kind of a 
smoothing over a three- or four-year period where we would be reducing it by 
that amount, by a certain amount, to bring it to the nuclear 43 percent 
reduction, to smooth that and give the market a chance to recover.  Because 
 
 
 
37 
clearly, I don’t think by the time we get to 2035 and beyond, we’re even 
going to have a class one market.  I mean, with the offshore wind representing 
30 million RECs, with people talking in Virginia, North Carolina, and the 
other coastal states about offshore wind as well, they’re going to swamp the 
market and the market is going to go zero, because everybody is going to be 
achieving this 100 percent. 
 
 
As far as this bill goes, saving ratepayers a quarter of a billion 
dollars a year, reducing by 15 years our ability to get to 100 percent clean 
energy.  I can’t see anything wrong with that. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Thank you, sir. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Next, we have Mike Egenton 
from New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce.  
M I C H A E L   E G E N T O N:  Chairman, how are you, sir? 
 
 
I stepped out.  The legislation that you’re doing is the renewable 
portfolio one, right?  Okay, I just wanted to make sure. 
 
 
I appreciate the opportunity.  We did not take a formal position, 
support or oppose, on this legislation, but I wanted to at least take the 
opportunity to sort of reiterate what I’ve said probably in the last several 
iterations of the energy master plan, where the business community is at 
regarding this legislation. 
 
 
Reliable, safe, reasonably priced and environmentally sound 
energy supply is essential for New Jersey’s economic progress.  The state 
Chamber supports a balanced approach towards achieving our energy goals 
that doesn’t depend or rely on one method, one technology, one fuel source, 
or overburdened segment of the economy or group of energy consumers.  
 
 
 
38 
Basically, a diversified portfolio.  Reliability and resilience of energy are key 
to our businesses and their operations in the state. 
 
 
The business community both are industrial and commercial 
members who have worked diligently over the past several decades to make 
necessary investments in both state-of-the-art equipment, technology, and 
energy efficiency.  So, when we talk about diversification, when they ask -- 
when the policy makers asked us, “What is it that you’re looking for as far as 
energy delivery?”  We want everything on the table.  We’ve been very 
supportive of solar and wind, as you all know, as that’s been working through 
the process, but, also continue to be very supportive of our natural gas 
industry and we thank the Legislature and the Governor for the work that’s 
been done to save down in South Jersey our nuclear provider.  I don’t have 
to tell you, we were concerned about Oyster Creek missing from the energy 
equation.  We certainly believe that a lot of this energy supply need to be 
diversified and everything needs to be on the table. 
 
 
You’ve heard me testify before, I take my role very seriously; I’m 
the longest-serving member on the New Jersey Clean Air Council at DEP, and 
we’ve been very supportive in tackling our mobile services.  I’ve been 
supportive in the legislative process on electric cars and electric school buses, 
so we thank you for your advocacy there.  Energy efficiency is a big 
component of our members, and they continue to work in that space. 
 
 
And, finally, just to encapsulate, we’re very hopefully optimistic 
on the future of fuel-cell technology and hydrogen and other sources.  With 
all of these proposals, the state chamber encourages the Legislature and the 
BPU to continue to analyze and review the cost to implement these energy 
projects, and then the impact, pro or con, on the overall State’s economy.  
 
 
 
39 
This oversight will provide a much-needed process to safeguard the interests 
of the ratepayers, making sure that we avoid any undue economic burden or 
surprises. 
 
 
Again, Chairman, we appreciate the opportunity to express our 
views. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
Eric Miller, Natural Resources Defense Council. 
 
 
Mr. Miller. 
E R I C   M I L L E R:  Thank you, Chairman Smith, members of the 
Committee. 
 
 
My name is Eric Miller, and I am the New Jersey Energy Policy 
Director for the Natural Resources Defense Council.  I’m sure others here 
today will cover some of the same points that I’m going to, so, I’ll try to pare 
down my testimony quite a bit.  
 
 
I think before touching on the specifics of the bill, it’s just very 
important to be clear about where New Jersey is today and where we’re 
headed through 2030.  So, as of this year, 22 percent of the electricity 
consumed in the state comes from renewable energy resources.  When we 
count our nuclear fleet, that’s 60 percent of our electricity that comes from 
carbon-free resources.  And, because our RPS ramps up year on year, by 2025, 
we’ll be around 75 percent clean, and by 2030 we’ll be around 85 percent 
clean, with 50 percent of that coming from renewable energy resources.  If 
our RPS merely continued to scale up from 2030 to 2035 at the same rate it 
is now -- around 3 percent a year -- we would achieve 100 percent clean 
electricity in the middle of the next decade.  And, those are just the facts of 
 
 
 
40 
the situation; anyone can look at the BPU regulations and net out the math 
there. 
 
 
In following a lot of good law and policy that originated in this 
Committee, both on the Senate side and on the Assembly side, an increasing 
share of that electricity is going to come from community solar, rooftop solar, 
utility-scale solar, and our growing offshore wind industry in which we really 
are in the air.  The pending passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, hopefully 
by this weekend, is only going to make this effort more affordable, and, 
because of the groundwork New Jersey has already done over the past 
decades, we are extremely well-positioned to be national leaders in this and 
provide benefits to all of New Jersey’s residents. 
 
 
So, based on the forgoing and based on how far we’ve already 
come and how far we’re going to go the rest of this decade, we would 
recommend that we continue to incrementally increase the RPS post-2030, 
and also address kind of the gap year that Fred spoke about in the 2030 year 
when nuclear is taken out of the equation, it will lead to a change in the REC 
market.  It’s something we can consider carefully.  NRDC has done some 
analysis on this already, we’re planning to do a lot more, so we’re looking 
forward to working with the Committee, but this is a concept we’re very 
interested in and it is very valuable. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Next we have Dennis Hart, 
Chemistry Council of New Jersey. 
D E N N I S   H A R T:  Good morning, Chairman, members of the 
Committee.  Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. 
 
 
 
41 
 
 
My name is Dennis Hart, Executive Director for the Chemistry 
Council of New Jersey.  Chemical manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, refining, 
is New Jersey’s largest manufacturing sector.  We represent 18 percent of all 
the manufacturing workforce in New Jersey.  Manufacturing, along with 
construction, has always been the way that citizens in New Jersey have been 
able to build up their own family wealth and be able to enter the middle class 
and add to our economy. 
 
 
I appreciate the opportunity to speak today.  One specific thing 
I wanted to discuss is our manufacturing facilities right now pay 55 percent 
more for electricity than all our competitors around the country.  It’s very 
difficult to encourage companies to invest in the state when they’re already 
paying so much for their current electricity. 
 
 
One amendment that we would like to see in this bill is to 
continue--  And I don’t know the technical way, the language, but we look 
forward to working with the Committee and the staff.  As many of our 
manufacturing facilities have combined heat and power plants, they have 
class two, class three renewable plants, to allow them to generate electricity 
on site, to deal with the high cost and high peak demand of electric rates in 
this state.  We would encourage the Committee to allow that to continue. 
 
 
And, why is that important?  As I said, we pay, right now, 55 
percent more for electricity than competitors around the country, and our 
sister facilities around.  Where does that come from?  Well, right now, we 
categorize our facilities by size.  Small, small-medium, large, and then large 
sites with multiple sites in the state.  So, I’m going to just use the large 
category.  The large manufacturing in New Jersey, using maybe 40 million 
kilowatts of electricity a year.  The societal benefit charge for that facility is 
 
 
 
42 
$340,000 per year that they pay for the society benefit charge.  You have to 
remember, we also pay 6.25 percent sales tax on electricity in New Jersey as 
well.  The nuclear credit -- that nuclear credit added $160,000 per facility to 
their annual electric bill.  Then when we look at the wind projects -- Ocean 
One, EDF Shell, Ocean Two -- that will add another $292,000 to that 
manufacturing facility. 
 
 
So, all my position is today is, as we go forward, we have to 
recognize the impact of electricity rates.  Not only on our manufacturers, it’s 
the last data I saw that’s hundreds of thousands of citizens are in arears on 
their electric bills.  So, that has to be--  We encourage the Committee, as you 
develop this language, to take a look at those issues, work with industry, and 
try and come up with things that industry can continue to work in this State.  
We are on the cutting edge of reducing our greenhouse gas impacts, we have 
significant ESG commitments, our facilities have.  We have a number of 
facilities with their own solar generation, and we’re committed to our 
greenhouse gas goals, but we need to do it in a way where we can continue to 
operate in this state. 
 
 
I thank you, and I look forward to working with the Committee.  
Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Dennis. 
 
 
Next speaker, in recognition of all of his environmental services, 
Jeff Tittel, former Director of the New Jersey Sierra Club.  So, he’s officially 
an environmental has-been.  Are you here, Jeff? 
 
 
Oh, he lost his place in line. 
 
 
Larry Barth, New Jersey Clean Energy Venture -- opposed in its 
current version. 
 
 
 
43 
 
 
Larry. 
L A R R Y   B A R T H:  Yes, good morning, everyone. 
 
 
I am Larry Barth with New Jersey Resources Clean Energy 
Ventures Business Unit.  Thanks for the opportunity to speak today.  I will 
cut to the chase, put aside the prepared remarks. 
 
 
So, I am not here to debate the merits of the proposal in terms 
of how -- in terms of this bill, in terms of how we are counting nuclear towards 
our renewable portfolio standard goals.  That’s an important discussion.  
We’re interested in learning what we can hear from the hearing and the 
discussion. 
 
 
What I do want to talk about is one of the unintended 
consequences that I believe that we see in the bill, which will have some bad 
ramifications for the legacy solar program.  And, I know that we’ve talked 
about this program in the past, so, I’ll be covering some of the same territory 
that we’ve spoken about as it relates to this program. 
 
 
So, the issue will be that the program, which covers -- the legacy 
program, which is closed, and covers about 130,000 projects in about 3.3 
gigawatts and about 13 billion of investment, still relies on a stable program 
until it closes in 2035, okay.  And, the incentives in that program are based 
on the supply and demand of renewable generation.  Demand is set by policy.  
What this particular bill will do, properly and consistent with what you would 
be doing if you’re going to include nuclear, is to reduce nuclear generation 
from the retail sales basis which is used to multiply by the renewable portfolio 
standard to determine SREC demand. 
 
 
So, if nuclear is about 40 percent of our generation, it’s going to 
reduce retail sales by about 40 percent.  It’s going to reduce SREC demand 
 
 
 
44 
by about 40 percent in that closed market, which is going to mean that we’re 
going to have a lot less demand for SRECs than is going to be generated in 
that closed program.  According to our calculations, when this starts to 
happen we’re going to have millions of stranded SRECs, somewhere between 
3 to 6 million, where there won’t be a home.  And, that’s like saying about 
one half to three quarters of all the SRECs generated will not have a 
compliance buyer. 
 
 
And, even though that wouldn’t start until 2030, when the 
nuclear would be phased in, it would start to have ramifications on the market 
much sooner.  People would be anticipating this and react to the expectation 
of perpetual oversupply.  So, all the folks that have invested in solar in the 
state of New Jersey to date in the legacy program is about 85 percent of the 
solar assets invested to date.  All took risks and understood there was going 
to be temporary fluctuations in prices based on supply and demand.  We 
didn’t take the risk, though, that there would be -- by policy, there would be 
an oversupply, a permanent, perpetual oversupply with no demand for 
SRECs and no expectation of value.  That’s something that we didn’t sign up 
for, that’s something we don’t think is the policy of the State. 
 
 
Now, the good news here is we do think there are some fixes here, 
some pretty simple fixes that can be done where we can adjust the RPS based 
on this new proposal.  We can do that in a way that does not require a lot of 
effort by the BPU.  We’d be using tools that are already employed to adjust 
offshore wind, the solar successor program, and the TREC program, and keep 
those whole.  We can do the same thing with the legacy programs, I’m going 
to put together an industry proposal that we’re going to share with this 
 
 
 
45 
Committee and make the modifications we need to make sure that this is 
appropriately covered. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
Mr. Tittel, who is now in the room. 
J E F F   T I T T E L:  Sorry, I was talking to Frank (indiscernible) about 
grandchildren, so I kind of -- that’s what happens when you retire. 
 
 
Thank you, Jeff Tittel.  And, I just want to thank the Committee 
for having this hearing.  I think it’s critical and one of the most important 
things that the State can do, that has been missing, which is to move to 100 
percent renewable.  We are not going to be able to reduce greenhouse gases 
and meet our climate goals and commitments unless we move to 100 percent 
renewable -- it could just never happen. 
 
 
The Governor’s Energy Master Plan was a step in the right 
direction, but it wasn’t going to get us to 100 percent renewable.  His 
definition of clean energy had a lot of other things in it that were not 
renewable, including things like biogas and, potentially, renewable natural 
gas.  And, so, you have to be able to--  If we’re going to try to meet those 
goals that we have set of 80 percent renewable, 80 percent reduction across 
the board from the Global Warming Response Act, we have to be able to get 
to zero carbon in the electrical sector.  We’re not going to get there any other 
way, because trying to get things in the housing sector, as you know, is going 
to be a tough fight.  Transportation is going to take time, and it’s also going 
to be a battle.  And, so, that’s the one area where we can get to zero carbon, 
and I think that’s the important part of this bill. 
 
 
I would like to see it be able to accelerate it.  I don’t know if we 
can; I think we should be able to, but it may take extra work.  Other states 
 
 
 
46 
have moved to 100 percent renewable by 2035.  I don’t know if we can make 
that goal, but at least try for 2040.  We can set the goal if we come a little 
short.  But better to come a little short than to not try to hit the goal in the 
first place. 
 
 
I also think that we might want to think about in the past--  I 
know in this bill it’s producing 100 percent, utilities have to buy 100 percent 
renewable.  Before we did the bill, the 2018 bill, solar was considered 
separate, that SRECs were added to the RPS.  You might want to think about 
doing that again, because solar in New Jersey is a critical part of our economy 
and green energy, we may end up with utilities purchasing most of the power 
from out of state, and we really need to make sure that, when it comes to 
solar, we’re still going to have a robust solar program here and, you know, 
when we worked on solar 20 years ago, that was one of the reasons why this 
solar was added to the RPS and not included.  And, I know in 2018 we 
combined them, but it’s something to think about again. 
 
 
And I’m just going to--  And then just one other point, because I 
want to be brief, I want other groups to be able to speak, and I would like to 
get into your house, too, is that under the definition of clean energy -- and 
it’s the current law because of changes because of a couple of other bills on 
food waste -- but it includes biomass as part of the definition of class one 
renewable.  And, I think that could be a Pandora’s box that either has to be 
limited very sharply or removed because there’s a push nationally by the gas 
companies, with this kind of oxymoronic term renewable natural gas where they 
take animal waste or sewage sludge and turn it into gas and put it into 
pipelines and try to burn it in powerplants -- it’s very dirty.  There’s a lot of 
co-pollutants with it, especially when you’re dealing with sewage sludge, 
 
 
 
47 
metals, and volatile organic chemicals.  And, I understand why we did that in 
the food waste bill, because we’re trying to get food waste out of the waste 
stream, but we really need to make sure we limit it so that we don’t get this 
push towards renewable natural gas, which is actually a very bad thing 
environmentally, it takes a lot of energy to create.  
 
 
And, so, to me, that’s a critical change that I’d like to see in the 
bill.  And all in all, though, I think this is important progress for the State.  
This could be one of the best things this Legislature has done since the 
passage of the Highlands Act, because this is a kind of landmark legislation 
that will make a big difference to this state and to our environment, and 
continue sending a message across the country about how we have to get to 
100 percent renewable. 
 
 
So, I thank you for that, and for your work on this bill. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you.  Thank you for coming out of 
retirement. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Next, we have Mary Barber from 
the Environmental Defense Fund. 
M A R Y   B A R B E R:  Hi, thank you very much. 
 
 
Yes, I am Mary Barber, Director of State Affairs, New Jersey 
State Affairs, for the Environmental Defense Fund. 
 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to speak today.  EDF commends 
the Committee’s efforts to accelerate the clean energy transition and the 
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in New Jersey. 
 
 
First, as with every climate and clean energy policy, reducing 
harmful pollution impacts and ensuring clean energy benefits are realized in 
overburdened communities must be prioritized.  We urge the Committee to 
 
 
 
48 
consider incorporating specific efforts in this bill to ensure equitable 
outcomes. 
 
 
As EDF analysis as well as many other organizations like NRDC 
as well as numerous academic researchers analyses have shown, deep 
emissions reductions from the electricity sector are a foundational part of 
meeting Governor Murphy’s and the Biden Administration’s commitments 
to reduce total emissions by at least 50 percent to 2005 levels by 2030.  In 
addition, deep cuts to electricity sector emissions are a critical part of keeping 
cumulative emissions, the total buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, 
at levels consistent with preventing the worst effects of climate change. 
 
 
This means not only making sure the State meets ambitious 
targets in 2030 and subsequently reaches 100 percent carbon-free electricity, 
but also ensuring the State charts of persistent decline in emissions between 
now and achieving those goals.  Most importantly, hitting these overall 
targets and keeping cumulative emissions down are critical for keeping 
climate pollution at safer levels and preventing the worst impacts of climate 
change. 
 
 
So, we encourage the Legislature to support requiring deep and 
persistent reductions and emissions from the electricity sector until 100 
percent carbon-free electricity is achieved.  This will ensure greater near-term 
and thus cumulative emissions-reductions, which are critical for reducing the 
extent of future climate impacts.  To do so, we encourage the State to 
establish frequent interim emissions-reduction targets between now and 
when the State achieves 100 percent carbon-free electricity, which we, as 
we’ve heard, we believe it can and should do well before 2045. 
 
 
 
49 
 
 
Additionally, one other specific thing.  We urge you to remove 
the section of the bill that permits the board to adjust the class one renewable 
energy requirement.  While cost is certainly important, solutions other than 
adjusting the renewable energy requirement must be found if the cost cap is 
at risk of being exceeded. 
 
 
So, thank you for the opportunity to comment on this draft bill, 
and we look forward to continuing to work with Senator Smith and the 
Committee and the rest of the Legislature on this issue. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Ms. Barber. 
 
 
Last speaker on this topic -- again, so we get to the second bill, 
and if there’s any time left -- and there will be plenty of hearings, so don’t 
anybody feel left out. 
 
 
Tom Lynch, KDC Solar. 
T H O M A S   L Y N C H:  Chairman, other members of the Committee, 
thank you for the opportunity to speak. 
 
 
Just by reference, KDC Solar has been involved in the New Jersey 
solar markets, predominantly in the legacy solar markets going back to 2010, 
and have focused on the commercial and industrial segment of the 
marketplace.  And we support S2978, but there are some, what I would call 
unintended consequences, as the bill is currently drafted.  And, that 
specifically goes to the oversupply that Larry Barth had highlighted. 
 
 
So, I’m not going to go through and repeat all of the items that 
Larry went through, other than to say that that situation is unique to that 
legacy portfolio of projects, both the TRECs, the SUEZ offshore wind.  The 
incentive payments or the RECs that come from those are treated differently 
than the legacy market.  So, there are a number of ways, and as Larry 
 
 
 
50 
mentioned, there is legislation in our proposed amendments that the group 
plans to put forward. 
 
 
The other thing that I would highlight, and it’s come up over the 
last decade, and it’s in this bill -- granted it doesn’t start until 2030 -- is that 
up to 50 percent can be met out of state.  The one important thread that we 
have always had with the solar industry in New Jersey, it was creating jobs, 
investment, property tax payments, all within the state of New Jersey.  We 
were building projects in the state to meet the State’s requirements.  As we 
now look to go outside, and we can go -- the State can go up to 50 percent 
outside of New Jersey, those jobs will be lost. 
 
 
We are a developer of large projects outside of New Jersey, and I 
can tell you that the cost of doing and installing projects in Delaware, 
Virginia, Maryland, other PJM states, is meaningfully less than New Jersey.  
It’s for a number of reasons, a lot of which is labor-related, but I’m not trying 
to harp on labor.  My only point being is that it is New Jersey ratepayers’ 
dollars that pay these REC payments.  Let’s make sure that we are getting 
those dollars the greatest bang for their buck in addition to reducing or 
increasing our renewable generated resources, our clean energy, but let’s also 
make sure we’re getting investment within the state of New Jersey. 
 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Tom. 
 
 
And, unfortunately, the clock is dictating that we move to the 
second bill, the divestiture bill.  By way of background, depending on how 
long you’ve been in New Jersey, you may remember that the Legislature took 
a position 30 years ago on South Africa.  We said we’re not going to invest 
in South African companies because of their policy of apartheid.  Recently, 
 
 
 
51 
there’s been some divestiture movement with related to Ben and Jerry’s and 
Israel.  This bill says we should divest our pension funds from fossil fuel 
companies, as a signal to the world that we’ve got to change our ways.  
 
 
So, with that in mind, first witness Tina Weishaus, DivestNJ. 
T I N A   W E I S H A U S:  Thank you to the Chairs for calling this hearing 
and giving us an opportunity to focus on what we think is a very crucial issue, 
fossil fuel divestment. 
 
 
My name is Tina Weishaus, and I am the Co-Chair of DivestNJ, 
a statewide organization that has been campaigning for fossil fuel divestment 
from the State pension since 2018 when this bill was first introduced.  Our 
position has been consistent and increasingly compelling. 
 
 
Continuing to invest in fossil fuels is too great a financial risk for 
the pension, and too great a threat to humanity.  It is time to align our 
investment strategy with our climate needs and our climate goals.  Renewable 
energy is the future.  As we move to a low carbon economy, the declining 
value of fossil fuel investments undermines the long-term fiscal sustainability 
of the pension fund, and the dangers from climate impacts such as extreme 
heat, floods, wildfires, rising seas, brought on by the burning of fossil fuels 
threatens to destroy peoples’ lives while it shrinks the global economy of 
projected 10 percent by midcentury. 
 
 
Fortunately, we now have the technology and we have begun the 
transition to clean, renewable energy, and it is in full swing, and that 
renewable energy is already cheaper than fossil fuel energy and certainly more 
desirable.  However, it is not enough to only invest in renewable energy.  We 
must also divest from fossil fuels to limit the climate destruction that is 
threatening life as we know it.  Why should we be investing in and 
 
 
 
52 
underwriting an industry that is resulting in such human misery, death, and 
destruction of all kinds?  In New Jersey, we are already experiencing the life-
threatening climate impacts, and our own DEP put out a report called 2020 
New Jersey Scientific Report on Climate Change, in which they warned about 
the coming dangers -- some of which we’re already seeing -- to our health, 
safety, property, and economy. 
 
 
As legislators, you have both the responsibility and the power to 
divest the State pension of fossil fuels.  It is your job to protect the health, 
safety, and security of your constituents.  Although this bill has 44 co-
sponsors, it has yet to get a committee vote.  It has been languishing for the 
last four years.  And during those four years, CO2 levels in the atmosphere, 
which is a measure of a warming Earth, have risen from 407 to 420 parts per 
million, and a safe level of carbon dioxide is 350 parts per million.  So, clearly, 
we are going in the wrong direction. 
 
 
We need you, our elected representatives, to be leaders.  We need 
you to work to pass this bill now, because continuing with business as usual 
is no longer an option for the rest of us in New Jersey.  In the past, the 
Legislature deemed it urgent to divest the pension fund from doing business 
with other countries, most recently Russia.  We are not questioning these 
actions, but have to ask:  What could be more urgent than what Governor 
Murphy and President Biden have recognized as an existential threat to 
humanity? 
 
 
There will be other people testifying after me in support of 
divestment from perspectives of business, science, human suffering; young 
people and retirees.  In the end, none of our testimony will mean anything if 
you don’t take action to get this divestment bill passed this session.  We 
 
 
 
53 
implore you to treat the climate crisis with the urgency it demands.  Passing 
the fossil fuel divestment bill this session would be a big step towards that 
goal. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
Just for the record, Mark Longo, Operating Engineers Local 825 
-- opposed, no need to testify.  Scot Mackey, American Petroleum Institute -
- opposed, no need to testify.  Chrissy Kosar, DivestNJ-- in favor, no need to 
testify.  Allison McLeod, New Jersey League of Conservation Voters -- in 
favor, no need to testify.  Doug O’Malley, Environment New Jersey -- in 
favor, no need to testify. 
 
 
And, our next witness. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Great. 
 
 
Not sure on the last name here. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Wengryn. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Ed Wengryn, New Jersey Farm 
Bureau. 
E D W A R D   W E N G R Y N:  Mr. Chairman, members of the Committee, 
thanks for having this hearing today. 
 
 
I don’t have a strong position on the bill, we just have sort of a 
word of caution.  There are companies that are fossil fuel companies that are 
making the investments in the renewable energy.  I think there needs to be a 
scalpel approach to this.  Investing in companies that encourage the right 
kind of investment in our future in renewables and those things, instead of 
penalizing everybody, I think it’s--  I get the point of not investing where you 
don’t want to, but I think you need to continue to invest where the 
 
 
 
54 
investments align with your goals, and I think you’d want to look at how you 
treat those companies that are starting to do the right thing and moving in 
the right direction. 
 
 
Also, the pension fund in New Jersey -- long underfunded 
through the tax process.  Reducing the return on those investments by 
making these things, what is the impact to the pension fund and the impact 
to those people who expect a good return on their investment?  So, I think 
there’s a lot to very carefully look at as you consider this issue, and I just 
wanted to raise those points. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments, Ed. 
 
 
Richard Lawton, New Jersey Sustainable Business Council -- in 
favor. 
R I C H A R D   L A W T O N:  Good afternoon; I’m Richard Lawton, I’m 
the Executive Director of the New Jersey Sustainable Business Council. 
 
 
We’re a network of businesses, triple bottom-line businesses that 
cut across all different sectors, but what they have in common is a 
commitment to integrating sustainability practices into the products, their 
operations, and their supply chains.  But, they also work with the New Jersey 
Sustainable Business Council to help advance a combination of market 
innovation and also policy change to create a more vibrant, sustainable, and 
equitable economy overall. 
 
 
Also, just on a personal note, my wife is a public school teacher.  
She’s been teaching in Florham Park School District for the past 24 years, 
and, after next year -- her 25th year -- she’ll be retiring.  So, the pension plan 
is obviously a very personal issue as well. 
 
 
 
55 
 
 
NJ SBC supports divesting New Jersey’s retirement funds from 
fossil fuel companies, and for two basic reasons:  One is to reconcile what I’d 
say is kind of like a policy dissonance, in a way.  New Jersey has clear policy 
(indiscernible) to decarbonize this economy, with the goal of reaching 100 
percent clean energy by 2050, implementing a series of policies, laws, and 
regulations all with this goal in mind.  Continuing to invest in pension funds 
and in fossil fuel companies stands in stark contrast to these coordinated 
policy strategies.  While these policies are based on the common good, fossil 
fuel companies maximize our profits by systematically externalizing their 
costs with some of the largest companies funding disinformation campaigns, 
reminiscent of the tobacco industry’s tactics, all in direct conflict with the 
public good. 
 
 
I just want to add quickly, I just want to, you know, express 
appreciations for the ambition for thinking about the renewable portfolio 
standard beyond 2030.  Just one suggestion.  Since this transition to clean 
energy economy presents a unique opportunity to address the systemic 
inequities and negative externalities of a carbon-based system, we’d like the 
provisions regarding equity and workforce development to be made more 
prominent and stronger. 
 
 
The second main reason to divest is to uphold the State’s 
fiduciary responsibility to pensioners, which includes risk oversight.  Holding 
fossil fuel investments over the long term is increasingly unnecessarily risky, 
given several clear trends.  The first is, fossil fuel companies have contributed 
to and benefited from a market failure that is now being remedied from a 
combination of market innovation and bold policy interventions.  This is 
putting increasing pressure on their rent-seeking behavior and the artificially 
 
 
 
56 
inflated value of their assets.  People, and the roles of citizens and consumers, 
are demanding a healthy environment for the communities and families as a 
basic human right, and institutional investors, like Black Rock, have 
acknowledged these developments and are adapting accordingly to prioritize 
climate risk and sustainability as key investment criteria. 
 
 
And, lastly, the increasing level of adoption of ESG, impact 
investing, stakeholder governance, and the U.N. sustainable development 
goals, as well as climate-related financial disclosures, all signal a fundamental 
shift that will leave fossil fuel companies, their investors, and unfortunately 
New Jersey’s pensioners behind if we don’t adapt to these new realities. 
 
 
Thank you for your consideration.  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Next, we have Dennis Hart and 
Mike Egenton, Chemistry Council of New Jersey Chamber of Commerce. 
 
 
MR. EGENTON:  Chairman, thanks again for the opportunity 
to offer some commentary on this legislation. 
 
 
For the record, Michael Egenton, Executive Vice President, New 
Jersey State Chamber of Commerce.  
 
 
Collectively, we all share in the goal of reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions, particularly in New Jersey.  The natural gas and oil industry 
continued to work on implementing cost-effective and achievable measures 
that drive greenhouse gas emissions reduction while ensuring affordable and 
reliable energy to meet our growing energy needs of our state and nationally.  
They are investing in new technologies and lower carbon energy alternatives. 
 
 
Large investors are not divesting, but their focus on working with 
industry to achieve achievable climate goals together. As these discussions 
take place over this legislation, let us not omit that many of our member 
 
 
 
57 
companies provide jobs and ratables to New Jersey, New Jersey’s economy, 
and they have state-of-the-art initiatives that are in place to go green.  For 
instance, Exxon Mobil’s global technology center, located in Clinton, New 
Jersey, since 1985 is a good example.  At Clinton, nearly 800 scientists, 
engineers, and technicians are working to develop the next generation of 
scalable, lower carbon energy solutions that address the hardest to 
decarbonize sectors. 
 
 
We should also learn from other states that have already 
attempted to address this issue.  A report submitted by the Suffolk County 
Association of Municipal Employees and Foster and Foster actuaries and 
consultants provided a warning about our neighboring state New York, 
“Divesting in fossil fuels cost New York State Pension System and taxpayers 
more than $33.4 billion over 30 years and lead to steep tax hikes, service 
cuts, or slashed pension benefits.”  Statutory restrictions on investment 
options are bad public and financial policy.  In it, they hardwire constraints 
on fiduciaries ability to adapt investment priorities to changing 
circumstances. 
 
 
One of the intriguing areas of vesting in recent years has been 
ESG, using environmental, social, and governance matrix as ways to assess 
potential investments.  However, the idea that you can make profits with 
purpose has recently come under pressure.  According to the Harvard 
Business Review, it is long past time we face a hard truth.  Despite a historic 
surge in popularity, ESG investment will not tackle our generation’s urgent 
environmental and social challenges.  In their analysis, ESG investing 
confuses investors, it costs more, and has yet to prove that it delivers better 
returns. 
 
 
 
58 
 
 
So, where do we go from here?  Let’s get behind and support 
private investment.  From the first half of 2020, U.S. investment in climate 
tech is up over 200 percent year on year, with deal sizing quadrupling 
investments in essential and unsettled key technologies, ranging from fission 
to low-duration battery storage to agricultural technology, and they’re all 
accelerating. 
 
 
Finally, I would heed this warning:  The state of New Jersey was 
extremely fortunate in the last budget cycle to receive American Rescue Plan 
money.  Basically, this was the first budget in all my years that we had this 
kind of financial support basically placed at our doorstep.  However, while 
the state’s environmental issues are very important, we must keep that same 
level of importance focused on New Jersey’s fiscal well-being; especially since 
many economists are concerned with our next two budget cycles. 
 
 
We respectfully oppose this legislation as currently written, 
based not only on the potential impact it will have on our many companies 
and institutions that call New Jersey home, but also on the devastating 
impact this legislation could have on the future financial well-being of the 
state of New Jersey. 
 
 
Thank you for the opportunity for us to express our views. 
 
 
MR. HART:  Thank you, members of the Committee. 
 
 
Dennis Hart with the Chemistry Council.  I just want to build 
on my colleague, Mike Egenton’s testimony here today, in the interest of 
time.  
 
 
I want the Committee to remember that fossil fuels are not just 
used for transportation or power generation, they also provide the building 
blocks for most of the products that are manufactured that we all use every 
 
 
 
59 
day in our lives, as well as the basis for fertilizers and a lot of other materials.  
It’s not just the transportation and the energy system. 
 
 
I believe that this legislation is not needed.  As a matter of fact, 
we should be investing more in these companies.  It’s these companies that 
are going to come up with the new technologies, and new solutions are going 
to lead to climate-change reduction; they’re going to lead to more advanced 
technologies that are going to help solve the climate crisis. 
 
 
As Mike talked about, at the Exxon facility in Clinton where 
there’s over 800 scientists working there, it’s New Jersey right now, there’s a 
lot of work going on around the state on carbon capture, under low carbon 
fuels, under advanced biofuels, natural gas technologies, green hydrogen, blue 
natural gas.  All of these things need to be advanced and not curtailed.  So, I 
would suggest to the Committee that we really think about this initiative. 
 
 
And finally, on behalf of all those companies, I think it would be 
good for the Committee to come out, if you haven’t already, and come to 
some of these facilities and see the work that’s going on on blue hydrogen, 
green natural gas, see the work that’s going on on all these new technologies. 
 
 
In the interest of time, I’ll stop there. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, gentlemen. 
 
 
Carol Gay, New Jersey State Industrial Union Council -- in favor. 
C A R O L   E.   G A Y:  Good morning, and thank you for coming to Toms 
River, Ocean County. 
 
 
I am Carol Gay, I live in Ocean County, in Brick, and I am here 
to urge you to support A1733 and S416, because the climate crisis is real and 
must be addressed with urgency.  I am a retired CWA Communication 
 
 
 
60 
Workers of America National Representative, and am now President of the 
New Jersey State Industrial Union Council, a statewide labor federation 
representing tens of thousands of union members and their families here in 
New Jersey -- members and their families who recognize the serious and 
immediate threat posed by the climate crisis. 
 
 
That is why we are advocating for immediate and bold action, 
which includes divestment of fossil fuels.  We do not see climate protection 
as an optional issue for labor.  Climate protection and pension protection are 
strongly linked.  Both are necessary to protect workers and their families.  
Both are necessary for retirement security.  Divestment from fossil fuels is 
necessary both financially and morally.  Evidence now shows that fossil fuel 
investments are extremely risky, and therefore costly.  They are losing money 
and are very much in decline. 
 
 
Responsible investors do not want to be stuck with stranded 
assets, and they want a healthier and safer future for their children and 
grandchildren.  With rising sea levels and raging temperatures, more intense 
and more frequent climate catastrophes are inevitable.  Unless action is taken 
immediately to reverse this trajectory.  The window of effective opportunity 
is closing fast.  We have only a few short years to reverse this dangerous path 
to disaster.  Divestment from fossil fuels is the smartest move to reduce 
exposure to financial risk linked to climate change.  Supporting fossil fuel 
divestment will protect the pension and will save New Jersey workers’ 
pensions from the nose dive most investors know will take place.  It is a 
matter of when, not if. 
 
 
In addition, renewable energy and new technologies are making 
fossil fuels obsolete.  Sustainable investment opportunities are on the rise, 
 
 
 
61 
especially with the new federal legislation, and clean energy sources can offer 
better, safer, and less costly investments. 
 
 
Divestment now is the responsible thing to do.  Workers’ hard-
earned money should not be going to make the Earth uninhabitable for 
humans and other living things.  Fossil fuels are burning up our precious 
planet with serious health and safety consequences for workers, their families, 
and life as we know it.  Especially here at the Jersey Shore. 
 
 
Fossil fuels are harming our pension and our future right now, 
but you can protect the pension fund and the future.  Make the commitment 
now to fossil fuel divestment before it is too late.  Please, put this out for a 
vote and get it voted on now. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Next, we have John Tomicki, 
League of American Families. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You received the Jeff Tittel award.  
(laughter) 
J O H N   T.   T O M I C K I, ESQ.:  Well, thank you for calling me; sorry 
I was late. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s okay. 
 
 
MR. TOMICKI:  But, I will put a hard stop on myself, as you 
know. 
 
 
Relative to the bill on divestment, we were active-- 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Can you speak into the 
microphone? 
 
 
MR. TOMICKI:  Actually, Senator Smith, it’s interesting.  It’s 
almost five years to the day that I first appeared at the Committee and I 
 
 
 
62 
began to discuss (indiscernible).  Since we have a hard stop issue, I’ll stay just 
on the bill itself. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Please. 
 
 
MR. TOMICKI:  If you’re really trying to influence policy, you 
have to own stock.  That’s what we did years ago when we were concerned 
about certain issues.  We’ve bought a block of stock and then you went up 
to the shareholders meetings and you presented your discussion or your 
resolutions.  To me, it would seem to be more sense than in the pension plan, 
wherever the stock is held, to join with other states for that agenda that you’re 
concerned about. 
 
 
So, I believe I would be standing against it.  The whole issue 
relative to even, like, the state of Israel -- I know it’s a sidebar on divestment 
and all the other stuff -- that they try to influence policy.  This is the wrong 
move.  I know it’s for discussion purposes only, but I think it makes more 
sense to hold the stock for the benefit of the employees who will get into the 
pension area, but to work together with other states you’ll have a bigger and 
much larger voice. 
 
 
I can’t get into the other bill because it was too long, too difficult.  
But, when I talked about (indiscernible), I am still on that issue of 
regenerative farming, the way we can actually on one part -- I know it’s not 
on the bill -- but the way we can sequester the carbon more efficiently in 
Jersey than we’re currently doing. 
 
 
But, thank you so much, and I apologize I left. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No problem, thank you. 
 
 
Last speaker -- again, running out of time, but not to worry, 
plenty of hearings coming -- Eric Benson, Clean Water Action, in favor. 
 
 
 
63 
E R I C   B E N S O N:  Morning; afternoon, members. 
 
 
I am going to preach to the choir.  We’ve heard this over and 
over again at the previous Senate Environmental Committee hearings, and 
again from the Commissioner today.  Climate change is here and without 
urgent action, the worst effects will be irreversible.  We’re already 
experiencing devastating impacts on property and life.  Boiling thermometers, 
draught, wildfires, COVID, cardiac diseases and cancer, and a struggling 
economy. 
 
 
Is there any doubt that we need solutions?  New Jersey is doing 
a lot, but we need to be doing even more.  Both bills up for discussion today 
are two more tools that we need to add to our tool box.  I had a couple 
suggestions on the other bill, I’ll get those to you in paper. 
 
 
I don’t have any suggestions for strengthening this bill.  I would 
like to echo Tina’s strong testimony, Carol’s strong testimony, and my only 
request is to advance this bill as soon as possible -- it’s been kicking around 
since March 2018, so thank you for the opportunity to comment today. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
And, we are just so grateful to all the people who came today to 
express their points of view.  We have the difficult position of trying to figure 
out what’s right for the State of New Jersey.  I recommend to you the movie 
Don’t Look Up because we’re kind of in that world at this moment. 
 
 
And, there will be plenty of hearings in the future on this 
legislation so, please, send in your cards, letters--  Eric, for the people who 
didn’t speak, anybody who said they wanted to have amendments, send them 
in.  Send in e-mails to Joey Gurrentz, who is the Committee Aide on the 
Senate side, we’ll share it with the Assembly side. 
 
 
 
64 
 
 
We do really appreciate you coming out today, and, on that note, 
Chairman, shall we adjourn? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KENNEDY:  Sounds like a good idea. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’re adjourned. 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
