 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
“The Committee will meet to hear testimony from invited guests  
on how food waste management and organics recycling can be used 
 to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions in the State” 
 
“The Committee will also take testimony, for discussion only, on 
S-431, S-439, and S-2185” 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 10 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
May 16, 2022 
10:00 a.m. 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT:     
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice-Chair 
Senator Richard J. Codey 
Senator Edward R. Durr Jr. 
Senator Jean Stanfield 
 
 
 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joseph Gurrentz, Ph.D. 
Eric Hansen 
 
 
 
Matthew H. Peterson  
Rebecca Panitch 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
Senate Majority Office  
Senate Republican Office 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aides 
 
Committee Aide
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
 
 
Isaac Bearg  
Vice President 
New Jersey Composting Council 
1 
 
Fred DeSanti 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Solar Energy Coalition 
11 
 
Lyle K. Rawlings 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Founder 
Advanced Solar Products, Inc., and 
President and Co-Founder 
Mid-Atlantic Solar and Storage Industries Association (MSSIA) 
12 
 
Doug O’Malley 
State Director 
Environment New Jersey 
13 
 
Don  Lepore, Esq. 
Partner and General Counsel 
True Green Capital Management LLC 
15 
 
Scott Elias  
Director 
State Affairs, Mid-Atlantic 
Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) 
16 
 
Lauren Kahme 
Policy Research Intern 
Ecogy Energy 
17 
 
Ron Urban 
Chief Executive Officer 
Advanced Solar and Energy Solutions, LLC 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
 
Page 
 
Larry Barth 
Managing Director 
New Jersey Resources, representing  
NJR Clean Energy Ventures (NJRCEV) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
Kimberly Giese 
Project Developer 
Energy Storage System 
174 Power Global Corporation 
26 
 
Brett Simon 
Manager 
Commercial Strategy  
Eos Energy Enterprises, Inc. 
29 
 
Evan Vaughan 
Deputy Director 
Mid-Atlantic Renewable Energy Coalition Action (MAREC) 
32 
 
Ben A. Graziano 
Policy 
State Street Associates 
35 
 
 
Josh Lewin 
President 
Helios Solar Energy LLC 
55 
 
Ila Gillenwater 
Business Development 
CED Greentech, and 
Member 
56 
Board of Directors 
Mid-Atlantic Solar and Storage Industries Association (MSSIA) 
 
Melissa Sims 
Ecological Systems, LLC, and 
Member 
Board of Directors 
Mid-Atlantic Solar and Storage Industries Association (MSSIA) 
58 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
 
 
Page 
Andy Wall 
Chief Executive Officer and Founder 
Ad Energy, and 
Vice President, Delaware 
Mid-Atlantic Solar and Storage Industries Association (MSSIA) 
61 
 
 
Baoli Wang, Ph.D. 
Owner 
U.S. Clean Energy LLC 
63 
 
Kyle Wallace 
Director 
Public Policy 
Sunrun Solar Inc. 
69 
 
Jeremy Connor 
Founder and Chief Executive Officer 
Novitium Energy  
National Energy Partners, LLC 
80 
 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Isaac Bearg 
1x 
 
Testimony, plus maps 
submitted by 
Fred DeSanti 
5x 
 
Circuit map  
submitted by 
Lyle K. Rawlings 
(MSSIA) 
13x
 
 
Testimony (Bills S-4312, S-439, S-2185) 
submitted by 
Scott Elias 
17x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
 
 
Kimberly Giese 
22x 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
 
 
Page 
 
 
Letters (3), addressed to 
Members of the Senate Environment and Energy Committee 
from Brian O. Lipman, Esq. 
Director 
Division of Rate Counsel 
State of New Jersey 
24x 
 
pnf:1-84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  Welcome, everybody, to-- 
 
ALL (in unison):  --the most interesting Committee in the 
Legislature. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Where have you been?  You’re all 
regulars.  You should know the answer to that. 
 
Okay, so a big agenda today.  Our first order of business -- as it 
has been for all the meetings so far in 2022 -- is a speaker on coming to the 
end of the world.  And I’d like Mr. Isaac Bearg (mispronouncing the name)  
--  Are you here? 
I S A A C   B E A R G:  Here; that’s a G. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Isaac-- 
 
MR. BEARG:  Bearg.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Bearg.  Are you here, Isaac? 
 
MR. BEARG:  Bad handwriting. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’m sorry.  
 
And Isaac, if you would identify where you’re from; and then, in 
a relatively short period of time, tell us how we stop the end of the world 
from coming too quickly. (laughter) 
 
MR. BEARG:  Well, I’ll do my best, Senator. 
 
Senator Smith and fellow Senators, thank you for your time 
today, and for the opportunity to testify on the important issue that is climate 
change.   
 
We’re very excited that we live in a state with Governor Murphy, 
and the State Legislature, and especially this Committee that has taken the 
 
 
 
2 
issue extremely seriously and has acted to address climate change, and is 
prepared to continue to do so. 
 
 So my name is Isaac Bearg; I’m Vice President and a founding 
member of the New Jersey Composting Council.  We’re a chapter of the 
U.S. Composting Council, a national organization.  And our mission is to 
promote compost manufacturing, compost utilization, and organics recycling 
to the benefit of our member society and the environment in the State of 
New Jersey.  
 
We specifically requested to speak before this Committee 
because, while we recognize that this Committee understands the importance 
of organics recycling, we feel it’s often ignored in the broader discussion of 
climate change.  This, of course, is a mistake.  The statistic we most often use 
when talking about organics recycling is that, according to the EPA, organics 
rotting in landfills account for the third-highest source of methane emissions 
-- a greenhouse gas that, while short-lived, is far more potent than carbon 
dioxide. 
 
As the 2021 U.N. report details, we need to reduce our methane 
emissions by 45 percent by 2030 to have a fighting chance at staving off 
climate change.  So we can’t wait to act on our waste sector.  
 
In New Jersey, we currently have towns sending our trash to the 
state of Ohio, increasing our emissions from transportation and disposal, 
while handing our problems to somebody else.  We have counties expanding 
their landfills to the tune of millions of dollars, all the while missing out on 
regenerative and climate-fighting opportunities to use compost for growing 
food, managing stormwater, and reducing harmful pollution from 
runoff.  Not to mention the opportunity to reduce our dependence on 
 
 
 
3 
petroleum-based fertilizers and sequester carbon in the soil, which is needed 
over and above stopping our emissions.  
 
This Committee helped pass the Food Waste Recycling Law in 
2018, and it was a great accomplishment.  But currently, its effects are limited 
for reasons I will discuss.  We must do more.  
 
With that in mind, I wanted to give a quick overview of the 
landscape of the organics recycling industry here in New Jersey, and discuss 
how we might be able to help.  Currently in New Jersey, the primary organic 
feedstock that is being recycled and, in most cases, composted is green waste 
-- primarily leaves and yard waste.  Now, the reason that’s getting composted 
is because it’s mandated to do so.  But the rules also allow for some reasonable 
exemptions to the solid waste permitting that allows facilities of not 
insignificant size to get up and running with minimal hurdles.  
 
There’s also some biosolids composting happening, especially at 
a well-operated facility in Burlington, and some food waste in pockets.  But 
it is a fraction of the waste that could be diverted from landfills and 
incinerators.  Recently, we’ve had some AD facilities come online that will 
accept food waste.  These are Trenton Renewable and Rahway Valley Sewage, 
in conjunction with CORe  Waste Management facility.  But these are the 
only two permitted food waste facilities that trigger the Food Waste 
Recycling Law the Senate passed in 2018 and came into effect last year.  And 
while AD is a very good alternative, we need composting to realize the full 
climate value of organics recycling, including soil rehabilitation, fertilizer 
replacement, and beyond. 
 
MR. GURRENTZ (Committee Aide):  Could you define AD?  
 
MR. BEARG:  Sorry; anaerobic digestion.   
 
 
 
4 
 
MR. GURRENTZ:  Thank you. 
 
MR. BEARG:  And that can be done co-digesting with biosolids 
or just straight food waste.  
 
So part of the reason there are so few facilities is that permitting 
and confined costs are very high, especially for new facilities and new 
entrants.  Which is, across the nation, where we see growth; from small to 
large over time.  This is especially problematic for composting facilities, as 
opposed to AD, in light of smaller profit margins and fewer incentives for 
composting.  
 
Additionally, while the Legislature has enacted the previously 
mentioned Food Waste Recycling Law, over two years later we do not have 
rules to implement that policy.  There’s no enforcement program in place, 
and the Food Waste Recycling Market Development Council -- which was 
established in that Bill -- a great decision -- has yet to meet.  And there are 
limited reports that it’s starting to appoint members, but it has yet to meet. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  By the way, it would be very helpful for 
your group to make some recommendations about significant members who 
might have more information about it.  If you would forward a list to us and 
a little description of their backgrounds, it would be really helpful. 
 
MR. BEARG:  Absolutely.  We are prepared to do that. 
 
So where do we go from here?  We think the quickest solutions 
are probably small-scale food waste composting exemptions.  A community 
garden should not need the same permit as a landfill.  Today it does.  Let’s 
exempt community gardens and, perhaps, other small-scale projects entirely 
from solid waste, air, and stormwater permitting.  These are small-scale 
solutions, but they can be acted on quickly. 
 
 
 
5 
 
If we want to go a step further, we can establish a system closer 
to what New York State and others have, which provides blanket exemptions 
under a certain tonnage; then a registration, which requires a slightly -- more 
information, but has a higher threshold.  And then a permit is only needed 
once you get above a certain threshold.  
 
So that’s-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Your recommendation of what that 
threshold should be? 
 
MR. BEARG:  I think we have put together those in the past and 
worked with the DEP on that.  But we’re happy-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Could you forward it to us as well? 
 
MR. BEARG:  Yes.  We’re absolutely happy to do so. 
 
Currently, the permitting process here in New Jersey is too long, 
too expensive, and too one-size-fits-all for composting.  To the extent the 
Legislature can act on permitting, it would move the entire industry forward. 
 
We can also help by incentivizing composting.  Currently, there 
are no tax breaks or financial benefits for composting, or for generators that 
divert towards organics recycling.  Grants and loans do not exist or are, at a 
minimum, difficult to find for facilities that want to start composting or 
businesses that want to cover the cost of starting a transition program. 
 
 In New York State, you can get costs associated with both of 
those covered, and that’s specifically because their leadership has stated 
they’re treating organics reduction and diversion as a way to meet their 
climate goals.  
 
Another hurdle composters face  -- and this is an issue you see in 
any environmentally friendly project -- is the not-in-my-backyard issue.  No 
 
 
 
6 
one wants a solar farm in their backyard, much less a facility that’s handling 
food waste.  Yet, when properly run, these facilities are not a nuisance for 
their neighbors.  Unfortunately, the neighbors are not convinced of that until 
the facility is up and running, and operating without issue.  And this process 
then causes many delays, and that costs far too much for facilities trying to 
get permits. 
 
There currently exists a Bill in the Legislature requiring county 
plans to incorporate food waste reduction.  Now, we have colleagues in the 
environmental community who would opt for a different tactic in addressing 
county planning.  But any bill that should move forward -- an action must 
include a plan for food waste recycling in addition to reduction.  This would 
encourage the counties whose sign-off sign off is currently needed for facilities 
to take action by either operating their own food waste recycling operations, 
working with others in public-private partnerships, or, at a minimum, 
providing a preference for these projects, including, perhaps most 
importantly, over a lack of support of the town from whom they do not need 
approval, but will often withhold if they don’t receive.  
 
So we would also ask for the Legislature’s help in ensuring the 
Food Waste Recycling Market Development Council, which I mentioned 
earlier, is finally appointed.  Our members have suggested that New Jersey 
could implement a number of different things, working with the DEP and the 
Department of Agriculture, that would be particularly meaningful for the 
Food Waste Recycling Market Development Council.  And I have a couple 
of them here that I won’t read for you right now, but they’re not considering 
it because they’re not meeting.   
 
 
 
7 
 
So again, as I mentioned, we’re happy to provide assistance and 
recommendations on appointments. 
 
And then, thinking longer-term, there are many ways the 
Legislature can take it to, even, the next level.  If we look at the laws in 
California about climate change, those require a far broader class of organics 
recycling.  I don’t know if New Jersey’s there yet, but that may be something 
for the future.  
 
People have suggested a small tax on trash generated that would 
support 
regenerative 
activities, 
including 
composting, 
as 
another 
opportunity.  So there are a lot of things we can do.   
 
And the last thing I’ll mention is, we can help raise awareness. 
This testimony today is not insignificant.  It was not until the end of my 
education, as an MBA in sustainability, that I learned about the issues of food 
waste and composting.  And so raising awareness about this issue is 
critical.  The first full week in May every year is International Composter 
Awareness Week.  We have spoken to the Legislature and asked for it to be 
recognized with an official resolution.  We were met with positive feedback, 
but that has not yet been accomplished.  So that’s another thing that the 
Legislature can very easily do.  
 
So with that, I’m going to thank you for your time, and I’m 
happy to answer any questions.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, in a nutshell, what you’re saying -- our 
regulatory process is a little too crazy to encourage food waste recycling, and 
that a little bit of a subsidy would help. 
 
Just for your information, we have the Recycling Enhancement 
Act now, that collects a little vig on solid waste disposal -- collection and 
 
 
 
8 
disposal -- and we may want to take a look at redirecting some of that money 
toward the efforts that you’re talking about. 
 
 I didn’t hear anything about--  I heard a lot about food waste 
composting, but how about on the reduction of methane generically?  I mean, 
right now we have landfills that are taking in a lot of food -- almost all the 
food waste in the state.  Some of them have collection systems, but they don’t 
seem to be very good. 
 
Do you have any recommendations concerning landfills? 
 
MR. BEARG:  So there are a lot of ways I can go there. 
 
One of the things we try to do and work with landfills is to say, 
“If you want to extend the life of your landfill, and have to reduce investment 
in expanding it, one of the things you can do is get 40 percent of your material 
out of the stream, and composted, and back into a saleable product. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Or aerobic digestion to turn it into 
methane and burn it. 
 
MR. BEARG:  Sure, sure, sure.  So I would say, even with 
anaerobic digestion there’s usually some amount of solid product, which we 
would then say should go to composting.  So yes, one way or another, if you 
want to extend the life of your landfill, you can get the organics out of there 
and create a saleable product at the end, whether that’s gas and/or compost. 
 
So from an economic standpoint, we’re trying to promote that, 
as well as just from an environmental standpoint.  Obviously, the less 
organics that are in a landfill, the less methane that’s going to be generated.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you very much for your testimony. 
 
Any questions from members of the Committee for Mr. Bearg? 
(no response) 
 
 
 
9 
 
If not, thank you so much for coming in today.  
 
All right; let’s take a roll. 
 
Oh, I’m sorry. 
 
Governor. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Anaerobic digestion?   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, anaerobic digestion; yes. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Is that a new diet? (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No, no.  No, it’s allowing biological 
processes to occur in the absence of air and oxygen.  That’s what it actually 
is, but we get it.  I mean, it’s a very interesting question that you’re asking 
because we have a little bit of a disagreement within the environmental 
community.  Some people--  And that gas is called renewable natural gas -- the 
theory being that you are not allowing it to go into the atmosphere where it’s 
going to have this 20- or 80-times impact of carbon dioxide.  But you are 
going to burn it, and you’re not going to make electricity.   
 
So yes, you’re consuming it in a more efficient and less 
environmentally impactful way if you do anaerobic digestion.  But some of 
my good friends in the environmental groups feel not even that.  But the 
alternative is much worse -- if you want it to go to the landfill and become 
methane, it’s just going right into the atmosphere.  
 
So thank you very much for your comments.  
 
Let’s call the roll so we can get some business done.  
 
MR. HANSEN (Committee Aide):  Chairman Smith. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’m present. 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Vice Chairwoman Greenstein. 
 
SENATOR LINDA R. GREENSTEIN (Vice-Chair):  Here. 
 
 
 
10 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Governor Codey. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  Here. 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Durr. 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Here. 
 
MR. HANSEN:  And Senator Stanfield. 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  Here. 
 
(Committee unanimously passes 
S-294, S-520, S-1229, S-1983, S-1985, and SJR-73) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So we have three items for discussion only, 
and they’re for discussion because they are controversial, and we want to hear 
all points of view.   
 
So we’re going to do them one at a time, and not do in a group 
of three.  That doesn’t work because each has its own separate issues.  And 
hopefully, we get a little insight on what we should or shouldn’t be doing as 
policy.   
 
So number one that we’re going to talk about is S-439, which 
directs the BPU to establish a process for maintaining supply and demand for 
solar 
renewable 
energy 
certificates.  
And 
this 
-- 
this 
is 
very 
controversial.    We-- 
 
You know, maybe I’ll let the witnesses do it and put it in context 
first, because that’s a better way to do it. 
 
All right; Mr. DeSanti, from the New Jersey Solar Energy 
Coalition, is in favor. 
 
Come on forward, Fred. 
 
 
 
11 
F R E D   D e S A N T I:  Thank you, Senator.  
 
Good morning.  My name is Fred DeSanti; I’m the Executive 
Director of the New Jersey Solar Energy Coalition.  
 
We support this Bill simply because it’s fair.  When we first 
started our path down towards solar energy in the State of New Jersey, we 
developed a system, a market-based system of SRECs -- where SREC prices 
would change and go up and down.  It was immediately done on the basis of 
a balanced market, where the SRECs would be generated by the solar energy 
facilities, and people would pay for them based upon the need associated with 
that.  
 
When that system was closed down, the statute said it should be 
done in a fair way; it should be done in a balanced way.  So that the system 
was closed down to not jeopardize investments that people had made in the 
early stages of this solar energy.  Because, at that time, as you recall, we had 
prices of about $8 a watt, or so.  It was very, very high.   
 
But New Jersey was a leader.  New Jersey got into solar very early 
on.  It was expensive, as we all know.  But as that system is now closed down, 
it’s important that we keep a balance.  And by 2025, right now, based upon 
the numbers we see, there is going to be a significant pressure of having too 
many SRECs in the market.  
 
And so what we would like to see is a balance, where the Board 
is required to establish that balance and make sure that these early investors 
are treated fairly in the process. 
 
And it’s that simple. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.  Thank you, Mr. DeSanti, for your 
comments. 
 
 
 
12 
 
Next, Lyle Rawlings, in favor. 
 
Lyle, are you here?  Yes. 
 
And Lyle, are you representing you and your company, or 
MSSIA? 
L Y L E   K.   R A W L I N G S:  MSSIA, the Mid-Atlantic Solar and Storage 
Industries Association. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Senator, thank you for bringing forward this 
Bill, and for the opportunity to speak.  And good morning, everyone. 
 
Mid-Atlantic SSIA has done a great deal of analysis around this 
because we understand the question is if we do maintain a balanced and 
stable SREC market, are we going to be overpaying these projects that 
invested based on the Legacy SREC program?   
 
And first of all, our analysis has shown that the market is likely 
to reach an oversupply condition that would be in the range of crash 
conditions for the value of the SREC.  The investors invested somewhere 
around $10 billion worth of investment in this state, and the solar projects 
under that program were expecting a rate of return -- as the BPU stated 
originally -- around 12 percent.  That’s what it took to get people to invest 
early on in the program.  That declined over time,  capital got cheaper.  But 
our analysis of a number of real projects -- for which we know the contract 
price, the contract PPA rate that provides revenue, etc. -- indicates that most 
of the investment that happened during that period is going to be seriously 
impaired.  Not only not meeting the expectations of the time, but not even 
meeting the investment expectation that an investor today would expect.  So 
these would be seriously hurt.  
 
 
 
13 
 
Now, the BPU promised, at the time that they took the vote, to 
close the SREC market under these conditions that they were -- and I quote 
exactly -- “committed to maintaining a stable and balanced SREC market in 
the years to come.”  And we believe this Bill is needed to fulfill that promise. 
 
That’s it. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Short and sweet. 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Yes; thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
For the record, Shannon Meyer-Johanson from Sol Systems, in 
favor, no need to testify.   
 
Doug O’Malley, in favor, from Environment New Jersey. 
 
Mr. O’Malley. 
D O U G   O ’ M A L L E Y:  Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, 
it’s great to be back.  And obviously, I wanted to comment on this Bill, and I 
wanted to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for bringing up this series of bills on 
solar.  Because obviously New Jersey historically has been a leader in the solar 
market.  
 
However, if we look at the amount of megawatts produced last 
year, it was roughly around 300 megawatts.  That fell drastically from the 
year prior.  We are seeing New Jersey solar--  Compared to other states, we 
are kind of falling down the rankings.  We’re also seeing job loss in the solar 
market around the state.   
 
So when we look at this Bill that we’ve previously heard, or the 
commitment from the BPU to maintain a steady transition in the SREC 
market, we believe this Bill does that.  And the thing, I guess, I wanted to 
emphasize here is that we need to make sure that we’re truly capturing the 
 
 
 
14 
true value of solar.  And there’s a report that Environment New Jersey put 
out three years ago that looked at a broad range of studies, some conducted 
by independent organizations, some conducted by utilities.  And it showed 
that of the 16 studies, half of them showed that solar had a benefit of 14 
cents per kilowatt-hour.  That percentage, though, was not incorporating 
studies that had a thumb on the scale for the impact of reducing 
emissions.   When you put the thumb on the scale for reducing emissions, 
the benefit and the value of solar goes up to 23 cents per 
kilowatt.  Remember, this is looking at kind of a national collection of 
studies.  
 
If we look at the actual research shown in New Jersey, conducted 
by MSSIA, the value goes up to 27 cents per kilowatt.  And, in many ways, 
that makes sense, because we have such a congested energy grid in New Jersey 
-- that having more solar on the grid provides benefits more broadly for 
society because it’s reducing emissions.  And also benefits for ratepayers, 
because it meets peak load.  
 
 So that’s just a kind of a reminder here that when we look at 
solar, we have to look at the true cost of solar and the benefits it provides. 
 
 And I’m happy to provide that research to members of the 
Committee. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Great idea.  Send it--  I think you already 
have,  but send it again, and we’ll make a note to distribute it to everybody.  
 
MR. O’MALLEY:  Super. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you so much. 
 
Don Lepore, from True Concern Capital Management.  Did I get 
that right? 
 
 
 
15 
 D O N   L E P O R E,   Esq.:   True Green Capital Management. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  True Green; sorry. 
 
MR. LEPORE:  That’s okay.  My handwriting is a little atrocious; 
I apologize. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s okay. 
 
SENATOR CODEY:  He didn’t go to Catholic school, then. 
(laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  In favor, by the way. 
 
MR. LEPORE:  Good morning, Senators.  
 
I wanted to thank you for the opportunity this morning to 
express my views. 
 
True Green Capital Management is a dedicated renewable energy 
infrastructure firm and has invested in over 145 megawatts of solar 
generation facilities in New Jersey.   
 
We share the concern expressed by our industry colleagues that 
the closure of the Legacy SREC program may create a severe imbalance in the 
supply and demand dynamics of the Legacy SREC program.  And 
accordingly, we support the Bill proposed by Senator Smith, and likewise 
recommend its passage. 
 
 For over the past two years, True Green Capital Management, 
together with many of our industry colleagues, has engaged with the BPU 
staff on this important issue, and we greatly appreciate the time and attention 
the BPU has given to us.  We believe that the current Bill is the natural 
outgrowth of these efforts, and provides the needed direction and clarity 
required by the BPU.  
 
 
 
16 
 
Maintaining balance in the SREC program is of paramount 
importance; and considerations of balancing supply and demand are common 
across comparable programs in other states where True Green Capital has 
invested, as well as in many programs in Europe.  The Legacy SREC program 
requires maintaining such a balance to avoid both potential harm to 
ratepayers, as well as potentially wiping out billions of dollars of capital that 
has been invested in New Jersey.  
 
This level of commitment is critical to maintaining investor 
confidence in the New Jersey market, not only under the Legacy program, 
but under a successor program and the State’s clean energy goals generally.  
 
We are hopeful that this Bill paves the way for a robust and 
balanced program in maintaining the confidence of investors in the New 
Jersey market.  
 
I want to thank you again for your time and the opportunity to 
express our views.  
 
Thank you.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Lepore. 
 
Scott Elias, Solar Energy Industries Association, in favor. 
 
Mr. Elias. 
S C O T T   E L I A S:  Hello. 
 
Scott Elias with SEIA, Solar Energy Industries Association.   
 
Chairman Smith, members of the Committee, thank you.  My 
name is Scott, as I said.  I am the Director of Mid-State Affairs for SEIA.  We 
are the national trade association for the U.S. solar industry.  We have about 
45 member companies located in New Jersey, with many more national firms 
also conducting business in the state.  
 
 
 
17 
 
I’ll be pretty brief here.  We support this Bill and recommend its 
passage for many of the reasons that others have said.  I think the key thing 
to note is that while the SREC program is closed for new participants, the 
SREC Legacy projects are eligible to earn SRECs over a 10- to 15-year period 
from those projects -- from when those projects initially went into service. 
And so, as a result, we’re talking about over $13 billion in capital that has 
been invested by New Jersey families, businesses, schools, and communities; 
and we need to make sure that we retain investor value.   
 
So this Bill is really about fairness, and ensuring that prior 
investments retain value as we transition over to the solar successor program. 
 
 So thank you for your time and attention.  Again, we support 
this Bill.  
 
Thank you.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Elias. 
 
Next is Lauren Kahme from Ecogy Energy, in favor. 
 
Ms. Kahme. 
L A U R E N   K A H M E:  Good morning, Committee; and thank you, 
Chairman, for sponsoring this Bill.  
 
I would just -- I’ll keep it brief, similar to what everyone before 
me has been saying.   
 
Sorry; for the record, my name is Lauren Kahme, here on behalf 
of Ecogy Energy.  We’re a solar developer, financier, and owner/operator of 
distributed generation resources.  
 
This Bill requiring the Board to implement metrics and 
mechanisms to measure the supply and demand for SRECs will help mitigate 
the volatility in the market.  And as everyone before me has said, it will ensure 
 
 
 
18 
the current solar and early investments -- the assets, early investments are 
secure in the future.  
 
So thank you for sponsoring this Bill, and we hope to see it pass. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Ms. Kahme. 
 
Ron Urban, Solar Clean Energy, in favor. 
R O N   U R B A N:  My name is Ron Urban; I’m from Advanced Solar and 
Energy Solutions. 
 
I am in favor of the Bill.  I think without it, the industry will be 
dead. 
 
That’s all; thank you. 
 
SENATOR 
SMITH:  
Shakespeare 
would 
be 
proud. 
(laughter)  Brevity is the soul of wit. 
 
Larry Barth, from New Jersey  Resources, AKA Clean Energy 
Ventures. 
 
Mr. Barth is in favor; if you would please come forward. 
 
Go right ahead, sir. 
L A R R Y   B A R T H:  Thank you.  Good morning, Senators. 
 
My name is Larry Barth, Managing Director at New Jersey 
Resources, representing our Clean Energy Ventures business unit.  
 
Over the past decade, Clean Energy Ventures has invested about 
$1 billion and 370 megawatts of solar projects in the state, supporting 
approximately 1,000 jobs since inception and saving 300,000 tons of 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
 
 
 
19 
 
We very much appreciate the introduction of this Bill; we 
support it.  We appreciate having a couple of minutes to talk about why we 
support it, and also some suggestions for possible improvement. 
 
The Clean Energy Act of 2018 required -- in pursuit of a new 
solar incentive program required that we close the SREC program and open 
up a new incentive program.  Thanks to a lot of hard work and leadership at 
the BPU, that’s happened.  The SREC market was closed April 30, 2020, and 
new solar incentive programs have been opened.  I might add that those 
programs are providing incentives at significantly less cost than would be 
available under the SREC program.  
 
We have--  Since the closing of the program, we’ve had 
discussions with the BPU -- as some of my colleagues have mentioned -- about 
the analysis that we’ve done that shows that in many scenarios, as this 
program will remain open until 2035--  Starting in the mid-2020s, out until 
the program stops operating in the mid-2030s, there is significant potential 
for a significant oversupply of material, oversupply such that many SRECs 
will be stranded and not expected to have any value.  There are also some 
scenarios where we show some significant undersupply, but most of them are 
related to oversupply.  
 
And the second point in that analysis is that there is no way 
within this program that it can self-correct.  Unlike other markets -- 
commodity markets, where supply and demand can come back into balance 
-- it can’t happen in this closed program.  And I think one of the points that 
we want to make here is that this, while it is sometimes referred to as a market, 
it is not really a market.  It is a program; it is the creation of policy.  SREC 
demand is a function of the renewable portfolio standard that is in 
 
 
 
20 
statutes.  The SREC supply is a function of the megawatts that have been put 
into the closed program, and how long those megawatts will be eligible to 
continue to earn SRECs. 
 
Right now, the root cause we see of the imbalance is that there 
just is a significant misalignment between what the RPS says right now and 
what the actual megawatts in the closed program are, and how long those will 
be generating SRECs. 
 
So as we come today to discuss the future, I want to be clear that 
investors in solar -- we take risks: we take development risks, we take 
construction risks, we take operating risks.  We’ve also taken risks in the 
SREC program -- that there will be periodic fluctuations in supply and 
demand.  Prices will go up and down, but on a temporary basis, not a 
permanent basis.  And what we’re seeing in our analysis is that some of the 
direction of the market will be permanent and perpetual, leading to stranded 
SRECs.  And that’s our concern.  That’s a risk that we did not sign up for. 
 
Now, we don’t feel, in any way, that State policy would 
encourage such a material adverse outcome.  The State policy has always 
supported the solar market.  When the SREC program was designed in 2007 
-- and I have been around long enough to have been in a room when that 
happened -- there was always discussion about fluctuations in supply and 
demand and prices.  But never permanent imbalances.  
 
The other thing is, this Legislature has always stepped up when 
we’ve been -- in the past, whether it was 2012 or 2018 -- stepped up to make 
adjustments to the RPS when it looked like there were going to be material 
oversupply situations.  In our discussions with the BPU--  The BPU has 
always supported the solar market in New Jersey.  That’s not for debate.  In 
 
 
 
21 
fact, they’ve mentioned that their policy goal is a stable and balanced 
market.  So we know the BPU supports this.  And the Clean Energy Act itself 
provided very specific guidance that the solar market transition should be 
orderly.  And there were also some solar market transition principles adopted 
by the BPU in December of 2018.  It said we need to make sure that we 
ensure solar growth, and also ensure the prior investments retain value. 
 
This Bill does some important work in clarifying the policy 
objective as to a stable and balanced market that we all believe is part of the 
State’s policy.  It also properly, we think, assigns accountability and 
responsibility for meeting that policy goal to the BPU.  It should not be part 
of the Legislature’s responsibilities.  
 
Now, we have left in the Bill -- it’s open as to what type of 
mechanism, operational mechanism will be developed to keep the market in 
balance.  We did that deliberately to not be overly prescriptive.  But I will 
say we’ve also had some engagement and discussions with the BPU on 
this.  And it is possible that with some focused effort we could come back to 
this Legislature with, perhaps, something that’s agreeable to the BPU and the 
industry; where it could be brought back as a package solution, giving the 
BPU the authority that they need to be able to implement that 
solution.  That’s possible; but again, our deliberate attempt was not to be 
overly prescriptive at this time.  
 
So I want to thank you very much for introducing this Bill and 
giving me the chance to talk about it. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So listen, to all of the witnesses who 
testified on this legislation -- and generally very favorably -- I need you to 
 
 
 
22 
meet with the BPU.  You know, I think it’s time for re-engagement on this 
issue.  Let’s see if we can come up with an acceptable way to go ahead.  It’s 
like anything -- everybody knows the rule in Trenton, which is 41, 21, and 1, 
all right?   So if the BPU is not going to be supportive, this gets short-
circuited, and it doesn’t get a Governor’s signature on it. 
 
On the other hand, you bring a valid concern to the table -- 
namely, that the State made some promises, especially early on with some of 
the solar developers; and I think it would be in everybody’s best interest if 
the stakeholders can meet with the BPU and try to work out a plan for going 
forward.  That would be very, very helpful.  So let me give you that 
admonition. 
 
 Are there any questions from members of the Committee to any 
of the witnesses? (no response) 
 
  If not, this discussion is over, and let’s go to the next discussion, 
namely S-2185, Senator Smith and Senator Greenstein, requiring the BPU 
to develop a program to incentivize new energy storage systems.  And it’s just 
exactly what it describes.   
 
But I have to tell you the screaming scandal that we have in new 
energy, all right?  The BPU was given a directive to get new energy storage 
systems.  And I’ve told them this to their individual faces.  They should be 
ashamed of themselves, because they used Yards Creek, 1965 --  built in 1965 
-- as credit for them meeting our energy storage needs.  And Yards Creek -- a 
wonderful facility.  If you haven’t been there during excess load--  They pump 
water up a hill to a mountaintop lake.  And when there’s a huge demand for 
electricity, they let it come back down and generate electricity.  It’s like the 
simplest energy storage system you can imagine.  It does great work; it’s been 
 
 
 
23 
doing great work since 1965.  But come on, BPU.  You can’t take credit for 
that facility as meeting your energy storage needs -- the State’s energy storage 
needs.  There should have been some significant expansion; we’re trying with 
this Bill to nudge them along.  
 
So do we have witnesses on 2185? 
 
Lyle Rawlings, MSSIA, in favor.  
 
MR. RAWLINGS:   Thank you, Chairman Smith. 
 
First of all, this is an excellent Bill; sorely needed.  The 
requirement in the Clean Energy Act of 2018 was to have a battery incentive 
bill by two years after that, which would be 2020, two years ago.  So it’s two 
years late, and we’ve already missed the first requirement of 600 megawatts 
by 2021.  And we’re getting to the point now where we’re only less than eight 
years away from the 2030 requirement, which is for 2,000 megawatts.  That’s 
a lot of batteries and we haven’t even gotten started.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So totally off -- well, not totally off the 
subject -- but we’ve introduced two budget resolutions -- one for the BPU, 
and the other for DEP -- and that is that they increase staff.  Neither agency 
has enough staff to do their job.  And as a result, they’re both becoming 
dysfunctional.  That’s a little harsh, but somebody has to kick some butt 
here.  
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So I don’t expect the budget resolutions 
will necessarily pass.  But we’re really doing a disservice to the people of New 
Jersey.  
 
So that’s my soapbox for the moment.  I’m sorry. 
 
 
 
24 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Well, I have 
to agree, Chairman 
Smith.  They are understaffed and they’re overloaded.  They have a lot to 
do.  The Clean Energy Act of 2018 was an enormous undertaking.  Switching 
societal energy over to renewable energy is an incredibly vast and complicated 
task, and it’s all falling on the shoulders of the BPU.  So I do understand 
that.   
 
But we do need to get working, not only to fulfill the 
requirements of the law, but just to keep the grid running with all of the 
renewable energy we’re throwing at it.  It’s not going to happen without 
massive amounts of storage.  
 
Furthermore, many State agencies, towns, and counties are 
preparing to do vital storage projects for microgrid operation.  These are 
facilities that keep vital functions going.  They’re critical facilities: hospitals, 
senior living centers, transportation assets, sewage treatment plants -- a 
variety of things that we have to keep running during emergencies, which we 
learned during Hurricane Sandy.   And they can do those tasks with new 
fossil fuel infrastructure, and many are planning to do so, not understanding 
that there are renewable energy alternatives. 
 
One thing we do not want to do is build new fossil fuel energy 
infrastructure.  But when it comes to either meeting those critical needs 
involving public health and safety, or building new fossil fuel infrastructure   -
- it’s happening right now.  So we’re trying to turn the tide and switch those 
projects over to renewable energy resources.  But there are projects that we 
know about that are holding up issuing the RFP, because how are bidders 
going to bid a solar-plus battery alternative if they don’t know what the State 
incentives are going to be?  So we’re holding up real important critical 
 
 
 
25 
projects because of the lack of these incentives -- knowledge about what these 
incentives will be.  
 
The one suggestion I would make of potential amendments to 
the Bill would be to put actual incentive levels.  We have studied the matter 
and found that, because of market revenue that batteries can earn, the 
incentive levels that the BPU put into a battery incentive program -- a smaller 
one, many years ago; I think about eight years ago -- was a pretty high 
incentive level.  We can cut that by a factor of three or four.  And so I think 
it’s appropriate to put actual incentive levels in the Bill.  That way some of 
these critical projects can move forward with their RFPs.  And also, we don’t 
have to wait, who knows how long, for the deliberations that would come up 
with those.  
 
The market studies are good news.  We can, very, very 
dramatically, reduce these incentive levels.  We would like to see them go in 
the Bill. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So we’d appreciate if you’d send us 
a  communication from MSSIA, indicating what the appropriate levels of 
support may be.  And let me say, you missed one; you missed a reason for us 
to be really doing this.  And that is, we’re going to save money for 
ratepayers.  What costs us a lot of money is turning on those peaker plants -
- very, very expensive electricity -- in a time of shortage, like summer air 
conditioning, etc.  If you had that more battery storage around our grid, you 
would be able to take the rough edges off that to some extent.  You’d need 
fewer peaker plants for a lower period of time, and that would save us all a 
lot on our rates.  
 
 
 
26 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  That’s a very, very good point.  And I also 
didn’t mention that these batteries will help stabilize voltage on the grid.  So 
brownouts, unstable voltage can happen all over the state.   They can be 
tremendous assets that the utilities can use to keep our grid stable.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Lyle. 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Thank you, sir. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, next is going to be Kimberly Giese 
from 174 Power Global.  
 
While Kimberly’s coming up, Shannon Meyer-Johanson, from 
Sol Systems, in favor, no need to testify.  Sterling Clifford, from Sunnova 
Energy, in favor, no need to testify.  And Julian Boggs, Keystone Energy 
Efficiency Alliance, in favor, no need to testify. 
 
And so now, back to our next witness -- Kimberly Giese, from 
174 Power Global, in favor. 
K I M B E R L Y   G I E S E:  Thank you, Chairman, Senators, and 
Committee. 
 
 Basically, 174 Power Global is a nationwide developer of battery 
storage and solar projects.  We do have projects in New Jersey already, as well 
as New York.  We have three solar projects under construction in New Jersey 
right now, and we are also participating in the Connecticut Battery Storage 
Incentive Program that was released in January.  And we did have one call 
with the BPU about that, to communicate what Connecticut was doing and 
to help assist in developing the New Jersey incentive program. 
 
You mentioned peaker plants.  We were awarded the 2019 
ConEd RFP to build the 100-megawatt battery storage project in Astoria 
Queens, which is replacing an old coal- and gas-fired peaker plant.  And that 
 
 
 
27 
battery storage facility, once built, will have enough energy to power 16,000 
homes for four hours; and to your point, using inexpensive energy at night 
and releasing it during great times of great peaks of energy.  
 
So basically, we support SEIA’s comments, and we support an 
upfront and performance incentive program for battery storage.  And the 
reason I gave you the background, and one of the main reasons why, is it does 
reduce the rates that ratepayers will pay, because it’s much less expensive 
than building new peaker plants and larger distribution efforts.  And we’ve 
done numerous projects and financial models, and without the Build Back 
Better Bill passing, and stand-alone storage ITC, we often have to couple, or 
try to couple the battery storage projects with solar to get the ITC.  And the 
projects are just really difficult to pencil out, even with antennas, like in the 
Connecticut market.  So we really need strong incentive programs to be able 
to develop these projects and help New Jersey reach its storage goals and have 
a greener, resilient grid. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Kimberly, let me ask you a question.   
 
Lyle Rawlings said our incentive is too big -- that we should cut 
it down by a third or a fourth.  Do you agree with that?  
 
MS. GIESE:  No; I think that you need strong incentive 
programs to make these projects work.  And the whole industry just has really 
suffered because these projects take a long time to develop, and so contracts 
were signed two or three years ago-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
MS. GIESE:  --where lithium’s up, like, 400 percent.  Labor is 
up, raw materials, steel--  There’s a lot of steel in the platforms of these.  And 
 
 
 
28 
they’re just -- we’re losing money on past projects, and we need assistance 
and help to get these built. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So do you think this new Federal money  -
- some of which is energy-related -- that storage facilities would be eligible for 
some of that Federal money? 
 
MS. GIESE:  It depends.  I mean-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It always depends. 
 
MS. GIESE:  You know, we were planning on 26 to 30 percent 
ITC, which is a significant portion of these projects.   And that’s been stalled. 
And that alone makes a lot of projects just not pencil out.  So again, we’ve 
been trying to pair the storage projects with solar, but in dense areas that just 
always isn’t viable. 
 
So we just really support S-2185 upfront, and performance 
incentives, to get these projects going and help New Jersey meet its targets. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Ms. Giese. 
 
MS. GIESE:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We appreciate your testimony. 
 
Fred DeSanti, NJSBO (sic), in favor. 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Well, thank you again, Senator. 
 
Fred DeSanti, New Jersey Solar Energy Coalition. 
 
I don’t want to just spend time echoing what I’ve heard up 
here.   It’s absolutely true; we need more help with the Board.  There’s clearly 
a need to get a lot of these policies in place.  
 
What I want to spend just a minute about is the duck curve.  We 
haven’t talked about the duck curve, but I think we should.  The duck curve, 
very simply, is a period of time, normally during the day, when there is more 
 
 
 
29 
renewable energy generated than is needed by the system.  So what happens 
to the price of energy at that point?  It goes negative, meaning that we end 
up paying fossil stations money not to run.   
 
Now, think about the fact of how dysfunctional this is, in terms 
of consequences.  If we took that same money and provided incentives for 
batteries and other energy storage facilities, we can take that same money 
and store that energy rather than paying people not to run.  We’re there; the 
duck curve exists in California, it’s headed here in New Jersey because of the 
amount of renewable.  We have to fix this. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any questions for Fred? (no response) 
 
Thank you. 
 
Brett Simon, EOS Energy Enterprises, in favor. 
 
Brett. 
B R E T T   S I M O N:  I’m just going to get out my talking points. 
 
Thank you so much for having me, Senator Smith, and for 
championing this important policy.  
 
My name is Brett Simon.  I am the Manager of Commercial 
Strategy at EOS Energy Enterprises.  We have our headquarters and Battery 
Testing Lab in Edison, New Jersey.  It’s actually the largest privately held 
battery testing lab on the East Coast.  And we manufacture our batteries in 
Turtle Creek, Pennsylvania.  
 
We’re very proud to be an American-based and manufactured 
zinc-based battery system.  New Jersey still has a long way to go for their 
energy storage target.  It was alluded to earlier, but to hit that 2,000-
megawatt target by 2030, there’s a lot of work that still needs to be done. 
 
 
 
30 
 
 We’re strongly supportive of this incentive, and we see this Bill 
as a great way to kickstart the energy storage market in New Jersey.  
 
Just as we have seen done in other states like New York, 
Connecticut, and California, doing this will pave the path for a clean energy 
transition in our home state, and create opportunities for homegrown 
companies like ours.  We also recommend that preference be given to energy 
storage products and service companies headquartered in New Jersey.  
 
Thank you again for your time, and for supporting this crucial 
effort. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I like the thematic, but I enjoyed the 
commercial at the end. (laughter) 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
MR. SIMON:  Thank you so much. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Doug O’Malley, Environment New Jersey, 
in favor. 
 
MR. O’MALLEY:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman; and thank you, 
members of the  Committee. 
 
Doug O’Malley, Director of Environment New Jersey. 
 
Energy storage is probably the single-most important clean 
energy technology that we don’t talk enough about, and we don’t invest 
enough in.  And I wanted to thank you, Chairman Smith, for your comments 
in the budget resolution to get more funding to DEP and the Board of Public 
Utilities.  If you’d look at comparable institutions in other states, like 
Minnesota and New York, they have tremendously more resources.  And the 
historic investments in our State agencies, specifically for the BPU and the 
DEP, have decreased precipitously over the course of the last decade-plus. 
 
 
 
31 
 
 I’d also want to specifically highlight the funding source for this 
Bill, which is critical, right?  We’re talking about $60 million which can jump-
start energy storage in this state and allow us to hit the Energy Master Plan 
goals.  Of course, that funding comes from the Societal Benefits Charge and 
Clean Energy Fund.  And I wanted to thank you as well, Mr. Chairman, for 
your support previously on any of the raids of the Clean Energy Fund.  We 
have a historic surplus in front of the Legislature with this year’s budget.  This 
is the time to end those raids so we can actually spend those dollars on clean 
energy programs, like energy storage.  
 
I wanted to highlight-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We reduced the raids, but there are still 
raids going on.    
 
MR. O’MALLEY:  Yes, that is correct.  It was $1.5 billion that 
was raided in the Christie era, and it’s close to $500 million in the Murphy 
era.  So they are still significant, as you noted. 
 
I wanted to make just a couple of comments regarding this 
particular 
Bill.  
There 
is 
actually 
some 
great 
language 
in 
this 
legislation.  We’re referencing not only performance incentives, but also 
separating out a customer energy storage, and specifically prioritizing energy 
storage for low-to-moderate-income customers, as well as overburdened 
communities.  That is critical here because this isn’t just about the 
(indiscernible) and large energy storage installations.  It’s also about 
incorporating storage into homes, and then being able to make our 
communities more resilient.  That provides, obviously, a broad benefit to the 
grid.  
 
 
 
32 
 
Chairman Smith, you referenced earlier the importance of 
storage to reduce peaker plants.  That’s hugely important.  Obviously, one of 
the ways you do that is by having more storage distributed everywhere.  
 
Thank you so much.  
 
So I’m hoping, someday in New Jersey, every EV -- electronic 
vehicle --  is a battery for the grid.   
 
MR. O’MALLEY:  Exactly, exactly.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, sir.  
 
Evan Vaughan, from MAREC Action, in favor of the Bill. 
 
Evan. 
E V A N   V A U G H A N:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the 
Committee, Vice-Chair Greenstein. 
 
 I want to thank you for introducing this very important piece of 
legislation and leading this important discussion on energy storage issues. 
 
 My name, for the record, is Evan Vaughan.  I’m Deputy Director 
of the Mid-Atlantic Renewable Energy Coalition, or MAREC Action for 
short.  We are a membership organization of utility scale, solar wind, and 
battery storage developers that operate in the PJM grid. 
 
As you know, Chairman Smith, your leadership was instrumental 
in getting the 2018 Energy Storage Goal for the State passed.  And we were 
very appreciative of that goal, and these new efforts now to get that goal 
implemented and to get these projects built. 
 
 We support this Bill because it establishes an innovative energy 
incentive program to drive new energy storage deployment; contributes to 
more affordable, reliable, and resilient electricity supply for the State of New 
Jersey; and it will facilitate more clean energy use in the state.   
 
 
 
33 
 
Specifically, we think the Bill’s approach to incentives, piloting 
both an upfront deployment incentive, as well as a performance incentive -- 
which will more efficiently reward battery storage projects for their services 
that 
they provide to the grid -- will help 
to jumpstart this 
industry.  Ultimately, the information gained from the pilot, as outlined in 
the legislation, would establish a long-term program to sustain storage 
development and build a 21st-century grid for New Jersey.  
 
MAREC Action is eager to see Senate Bill 2185’s regulatory 
updates, which would alleviate one of the biggest challenges to front-of-the-
meter storage -- which is what our members are primarily concerned with -- 
namely, the lack of utility tariffs grounded in the cost of service associated 
with adding that storage to the grid.  
 
As you noted, Senator Smith -- and I was very glad to hear this  
--  we believe it is key to provide the Board of Public Utilities with resources 
to do this; not just quickly, but also to perform quality analysis and make 
sure that this is done right.  The more quickly that these robust energy storage 
goals can be achieved with this legislation and the previous goal, the more 
quickly consumers will see benefits, including cost savings from reducing 
those peak energy-demand hours.  And those benefits will only grow as New 
Jersey expands and achieves its RPS standards.  
 
So again, thank you for this -- your leadership on the issue.  We 
support the Bill.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You just stimulated a crazy idea.  And I’ll 
throw it out there. 
 
What do you think about New Jersey setting up its own energy 
storage utility?  In other words, instead of giving money to individual utilities 
 
 
 
34 
or incentivizing, they do it themselves.  And that way, you could guarantee-
-  First of all, there would be no profit incentive.  So forget the 12 percent a 
year forever.  And then New Jersey could locate the energy storage wherever 
it thinks the grid would be most strengthened by it.  And it could be 
reimbursed by Societal Benefits Charges, or in some other way, so it wouldn’t 
necessarily impact rates.  Just something to think about.  I’m going to throw 
that out there.  You don’t have to give me an answer to it now (laughter), but 
if you want to, we’re willing to respond. 
 
MR. VAUGHAN:  We’ll discuss it with our members.  Yes, I 
always like inspiring crazy ideas, so I feel like I’ve done my job here. 
 
Thank you, Senator. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And by the way, does any other state do 
that?  Does any other state have an independent corporation, or a state-
run  corporation, that makes sure that what it wants to happen to the grid 
actually happens?  The utilities aren’t doing it.  
 
MR. VAUGHAN:  Yes, I’ll have to put some thought into it. 
 
SENATOR DURR:  That would be putting your finger on the 
scale.  I don’t think the government should be involved. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You don’t like the finger on the scale?  All 
right. 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Let business do business; government -- just 
regulate. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  If they do business.   
 
The next Bill you’re going to hear what the real-- 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Don’t have the government put their finger 
on the scale and picking winners and losers. 
 
 
 
35 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Wait till you see the next Bill. (laughter) 
 
But anyway, something for people to think about. 
 
MR. VAUGHAN:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So Ben Graziano and Jeremy Connor, State 
Street Associates and New Idiom Energy. 
 
First, you have to tell us how to pronounce it.  And you’d like 
amendments -- in favor, but you’d like amendments. 
B E N   A.   G R A Z I A N O:  Yes. 
 
Good morning, Chairman; it’s still morning. 
 
Ben Graziano from State Street Associates; this is Jeremy Connor 
from Novitium Energy.  They are a Jersey-based commercial solar producer.  
 
We appreciate the opportunity to testify on 431 today.  I think 
it’s 
an 
interesting 
Bill.  
It 
deals 
with 
a 
big 
issue, 
which 
is 
interconnection.  And as New Jersey has a very ambitious-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I think you’re on the wrong Bill. 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:   Oh; we were supposed to be on 431.  Did 
we-- 
 
SENATOR DURR:  We’re on 1285 (sic). 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You signed a slip for 1285 (sic). 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  Oh, it should have been 431; I apologize. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So do you have any comments for 2185? 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  Briefly, because I think that 2185 can fit in, 
sort of like with what our recommendations were for 431.  I mean, we’re 
supportive of an idea of moving towards an incentive for battery storage, 
because we actually think that battery storage should be part of 431.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
 
 
36 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right; and you’re going to have your 
comments on the last one? 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  Yes, the last one. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Larry Barth, New Jersey Resources, AKA 
Clean Energy Ventures. 
 
Larry, in favor. 
 
MR. BARTH:  Thank you, Senator. 
 
We like this Bill. 
 
Larry Barth, with New Jersey Resources. 
 
We like this Bill.  Two very slight modifications we’d request 
today.  One is to explicitly recognize hydrogen storage as a storage 
technology.  Now, I think some of my colleagues today have illustrated that 
-- they’ve said -- when they referred to energy storage, it’s battery storage, 
battery storage.  Hydrogen is something that’s really kind of come up quickly 
in terms of its potential.  So in the scenario Mr. DeSanti just mentioned, 
where you have excess renewable energy, clean energy, that can be used in 
electrolysis to split water to capture hydrogen that can either be blended into 
the gas system to decarbonize gas, or can be captured and stored as pure 
hydrogen and put back into the electric system through a fuel cell.  So we just 
would like the mention of it in the Bill. 
 
SENATOR 
SMITH:  
So 
I 
think 
that’s 
absolutely 
reasonable.  And everyone should know that Joey Gurrentz, who is the 
Committee Aide, has a Ph.D. in chemistry.  And what he did his work on was 
electrolysis. 
 
MR. BARTH:  Wow.   
 
 
 
37 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So there you go. (applause)  We have a lot 
of expertise here. 
 
MR. BARTH:  And I can tell you-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good suggestion. 
 
MR. BARTH:  And I can tell you from working with him, he’s a 
pleasure to work with.   
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
MR. BARTH:  The second is, we suggest--  In the Bill, it suggests 
that the BPU take a look at net metering in the context of storage.  So that’s 
kind of looking at rate structures.  We think it’s important that they also look 
at time-of-use rates, right?  Because we’re talking about ways to shift load.  If 
we do a good job with rate design, we can really encourage the behaviors that 
shift load, and then storage is one of those technologies that can meet that 
goal.  And really it gets us having a discussion now about -- less about 
incentives, but more that we’ve designed the rate structures that really 
encourage the kind of behaviors we’re looking at.  And then storage becomes 
adopted, not because of incentives, but because it makes sense for people to 
move from on-peak charging to off-peak charging.  
 
And as you know, it’s going to be extremely important, as we talk 
about electric vehicles, that we do that, get that right.  Otherwise, we’re going 
to be adding a tremendous amount of load and adding all the infrastructure 
requirements on the electric system.  So we have to get that right. 
 
So time-of-use rates, I think, and storage go hand-in-hand.  And 
I think, at the end of that, we’ll get a better result in terms of understanding 
that maybe we need less direct incentives, and that the rates themselves can 
do a lot of the work.  
 
 
 
38 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  By the way, what do you think about Mr. 
Rawlings’ comment that the incentive for storage could be one-third or one-
quarter less? 
 
MR. BARTH:  Well, I don’t know; I haven’t looked at his 
analysis.  But in the back of my mind, I’m thinking that maybe that’s where 
he’s going -- is that if we do have better rate structures, then what you’re 
going to actually need to compensate people to get them to adopt these 
technologies may be less if we really have a good on-peak rate, and a good 
off-peak rate, and good differentials that might actually encourage the 
behavior to adopt storage without needing as much direct incentive.  
 
So it’s something, I think, we really have to be looking at.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I appreciate your comments. 
 
MR. BARTH:  I gave our suggestions to Joey, and I appreciate 
your considering them. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Absolutely. 
 
MR. BARTH:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you very much for your comments. 
 
Lauren Kahme from Ecogy Energy, in favor. 
 
MS. KAHME:  Thank you. 
 
Yes, I’ll keep it brief. 
 
Ecogy supports this Bill.  We think that expanding battery 
storage opportunities in New Jersey, obviously, is not only obligatory 
pursuant to Bill A-3723 from 2018 -- which established the 2000-megawatt 
goal by 2030 -- but it is also beneficial for the local economy of New Jersey 
as a state.  Ecogy’s portfolio includes battery energy storage, which we 
currently have in other states throughout the Northeast.  Developers like us 
 
 
 
39 
at Ecogy will only have reason to bring our storage technologies to New Jersey 
with such incentives.  
 
So we look forward to seeing this program -- the pilot program 
introduced.  And hopefully, a more engaged stakeholder process, as well, 
while it’s being developed.   
 
So thank you for your time.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Ms. Kahme. 
 
The last witness is Scott Elias from the Solar Energy Industries 
Association, in favor.  
 
Mr. Elias. 
 
MR. ELIAS:  Chairman Smith, members of the Committee, 
Scott Elias.  I am the Director of Mid-Atlantic State Affairs for the Solar 
Energy Industries Association. 
  
I mentioned before we have about 1,000 member companies, but 
what we do is both solar and, increasingly, storage.  And so our members are 
increasingly interested in whether they can invest in energy storage within 
New Jersey.  
 
We support Senate Bill 2185 and recommend its passage to 
maintain New Jersey’s position as a clean energy leader.  And to achieve the 
Murphy Administration’s Energy Master Plan goal of 100 percent clean 
energy by 2050, we need to ramp up energy storage in New Jersey.  This 
Legislature took a critical step in 2018, when it set out its visionary goal of 
2,000 megawatts of energy storage by 2030.  But New Jersey needs effective 
policies, programs, and mechanisms to actually reach those targets.  
 
We specifically support this legislation directing the BPU to 
develop an energy storage incentive pilot program, with $60 million per year 
 
 
 
40 
for the duration of the pilot program, before creating a permanent 
program.  And we support the combined approach of upfront incentives for 
customers for every kilowatt-hour of energy storage capacity they install, with 
performance payments -- where utilities will literally pay customers to allow 
them to dispatch power from their energy storage systems when demand for 
electricity is at its highest, which is providing needed grid services that benefit 
all ratepayers.  
 
This approach incorporates best practices from several states in 
New England and New York.  And it’s a cost-effective way to encourage the 
deployment of capital and the development of both behind-the-meter storage 
and in-front-of-the-meter storage at the distribution and transmission 
level.  Put simply, this will reduce the upfront cost of storage technologies.  It 
will normalize and expand solar-plus storage as a product offering in the 
market, as well as stand-alone storage as a product offering in the market.  It 
will improve customer resilience to grid outages, and it will provide storage 
solutions to vulnerable communities. 
 
 States with successful energy storage policies have programs 
focused both on the deployment and optimization of energy storage 
resources.  And that’s what this Bill does, with a wide degree of flexibility 
offered to the BPU in how to get the job done.  
 
We also support the Bill’s requirement that a third of the 
incentives for energy storage be reserved for low-income customers, and 
customers in overburdened communities who are most at risk for storm-
related outages.  And while the Bill suggests that adders can be considered, 
we do suggest that the BPU embrace a system of incentive bonuses, or adders, 
for projects serving these LMI communities.  
 
 
 
41 
 
Finally, if the objective is to normalize and expand solar-plus 
storage as a product offering in the market, one area where we think the Bill 
can be improved is adding language to support customer- and third party-
provided and owned meter-collared adapters, deployed for the purpose of 
isolating a customer’s electrical load to enable the provision of backup 
power.   Colorado recently passed a bill that does this.  This will save 
customers installing combined solar and battery storage systems hundreds, if 
not thousands of dollars.  And it will dramatically reduce installation 
timelines. 
 
And we’re happy to follow up with Joey with more details on that 
suggestion.  
 
So in conclusion, as climate impacts worsen, we need to make 
sure energy storage is a driving piece of New Jersey’s clean energy 
future.   This Bill will foster a business environment that captures the benefits 
of energy storage on both the customer side of the meter, as well as the utility 
side of the meter, and create a long-term demand signal that New Jersey is a 
place to invest in the deployment of energy storage.  
 
So thank you, and I’m happy to answer any questions.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any questions for Mr. Elias? (no response) 
 
Thank you very much for your comments.   
 
Mr. Elias was our last witness on 2185, which, of course, was for 
discussion only.   The comments were very, very helpful and informative. 
 
And our last hearing (sic) of the morning is S-431, 
Smith/Greenstein, pending referral.  It directs the BPU to update 
interconnection standards for Class 1 renewable energy sources, and develop 
the fixed fee structure for interconnection costs. 
 
 
 
42 
 
So let me put this a little bit in perspective, but we’ll hear more 
from the witnesses.   
 
Last year we -- and actually over the course of the year -- we did 
everything we could to promote solar.  When you look at the cost of solar, 
grid-scale solar is about 40 percent of the cost of rooftop solar.  Rooftop solar 
is a little bit expensive.  We have been criticized in The Star-Ledger -- Tom 
Moran’s article a few Sundays ago, saying, “Too damn expensive.”  And, in 
fact, we spend $800 million a year in subsidies for solar programs.  A lot of 
money. 
 
 We’re not doing enough to do grid-scale solar.  Even though last 
year, you may remember, we found a way to get 5,000 acres of farmland, of 
our huge inventory, to be accessible to grid-scale solar.  We did dual-use solar, 
where you can continue farming and put solar on the fences overhead -- 
whatever -- so you can do it in agricultural communities.  And by the way, 
with the support of all the farm people -- Farm Bureau, Department of 
Agriculture.  It included, as well, a pilot program to see what’s the best kind 
of farm solar -- North, Central, and South Jersey.  It’s Rutgers University 
doing a study and a pilot program.  And it ain’t happening.  We’re not getting 
grid-scale solar in the state.  And the reason we’re not getting grid-scale solar 
in the state is interconnection problems.  The interconnection problems are 
-- if you are trying to do a grid-scale project, you have to make an application 
to the local utility.  And the local utility -- depending on which one; and we 
all know who’s really horrible at it -- but depending on which one, will take 
six months, a year, 18 months to give you the answer.  And the answer is, 
how do you have to change the grid in order to take the grid-scale solar 
(indiscernible) this new facility? 
 
 
 
43 
 
SENATOR DURR:  So you agree; we have too much red tape in 
this government. (laughter) 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We have way too much red tape.  And 
added to that, all the incentives are wrong.  You may remember that we 
deregulated the electric world in New Jersey so that utilities are now 
plumbers.  They’re now the people who are the pipes to get electricity to a 
customer.  They’re not generators.  The theory being by separating the two 
of them you’re going to have a more economically efficient system.  I voted 
against it then; and if it was up again, I’d vote against it now, because it just 
hasn’t worked.  All the promises for deregulation were lies.  It has not made 
this State better in terms of either the stability of the grid, or providing 
electricity more efficiently -- blah, blah, blah, blah blah.  
 
So you now have utilities having the yes or no button.  And the 
yes or no is not only can you connect to my grid, but here’s a bill for how 
much it’s going to cost for the revision to the infrastructure.   And even 
though they’re not in the energy generation business, it’s not happening.  
 
So I have to ask, “What’s the problem?”  And by the way, the 
other entity at fault, besides us -- because we’re the Legislature, and we’re 
supposed to be setting policy -- but the other entity is the BPU, because 
they’re not requiring utilities to upgrade that part of the grid that they 
have.  There are various parts of the grid that just couldn’t do grid-scale 
solar.  So we’re all at fault, all right? 
 
 So this Bill has two ideas in it.  The one idea is that we adopt 
what’s called I-RECs standards.  I-RECs standards are, for lack of a better 
phrase, the best practices for interconnections.  They actually help getting 
more interconnections.  And the other one is support for modernizing the 
 
 
 
44 
grid.  When you have solar developers applying to connect, or anybody to 
connect, there’s going to be a small vigorish set by how much electricity 
you’re putting into the grid.  But only for the purpose of upgrading the grid, 
all right? 
 
So that’s what’s in the Bill.  And I have a wild and crazy idea to 
add to it, but I don’t know if I’ll add to it now.  Some states are -- maybe I’ll 
mention it -- some states are going with a no-export concept.  And that is -- 
you want to cut the wires to the utility?  So you become an independent 
entity. You generate power for hospitals, school systems, a whole bunch of 
residential homes.  You can do that, but you can’t depend on the grid.  So 
you have to have battery storage and you have to have emergency generation 
capability.  And what it does-- 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Doesn’t that add the risk of what happened 
in Texas? 
 
 SENATOR SMITH:  Well, I think a reasonable imitation of 
that.  But that’s not in the Bill.  But if you have any comments, I’d love to 
hear them. 
 
So this one we have the most slips.  Let me see if there’s anybody 
who doesn’t want to testify.  And again, it’s for discussion only.  We want to 
vet this; we want to find out what the problems are. 
 
So Elena Wiseman, Vote Solar, in favor, no need to 
testify.  Sterling Clifford, from Sunnova, in favor, no need to 
testify.  Shannon Meyer-Johanson, from Sol Systems, in favor, no need to 
testify.  Larry Barth, New Jersey Resources, AKA Clean Energy Ventures, in 
favor, no need to testify.  I have one in opposition, which is good too.   
 
So that cuts the stack a little smaller. 
 
 
 
45 
 
Let me ask Fred DeSanti to come up, because Fred brought 
forward a whole bunch of these ideas.  So I think you’re going to be the best 
spokesman on why you think it’s necessary.  
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I very much 
appreciate the opportunity.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  A little identification. 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Fred DeSanti, New Jersey Solar Energy 
Coalition. 
 
 I appreciate the opportunity.  This is a very important, very 
complicated Bill.  
 
I would first like to compliment the Committee -- and I failed to 
do this earlier -- but I know at the last meeting it was mentioned that we are 
now 20 percent lower in environmental emissions than we were in 2006.  And 
that’s a very significant achievement, and I think that this Committee really, 
really deserves a round of applause for the work that they’ve done in 
achieving that, as these are policies that have been born here.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That being said, we haven’t done enough. 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Well, that’s why we’re here.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  S-431 represents an important step in creating 
actionable plans.  These are practical plans to meet the goals set forward by 
Governor Murphy and the Board of Public Utilities.  
 
The problems currently facing the solar industry are 
unprecedented.  And if we’re going to move forward, we need the kind of 
practical, clear-thinking approaches that exist in this Bill.  Rough justice, 
basically, is what this comes down to.  
 
 
 
46 
 
I’d like to begin by calling your attention to some maps that I 
distributed, if you have these (indicates). 
 
This is actually right from the Internet; you can get these.  And 
this shows the Atlantic City Electric territory.  
 
I would call your attention to the circuits that are shown in black. 
Those are circuits that are completely closed down.  If you’re a resident, a 
homeowner, and you call up and say, “Geez, I’d like to have solar on my 
roof,” even though it’s 8 to 10 kilowatts, which is a very small amount of 
power, you’re going to be told, “No.  You live in a place where we can’t 
accommodate any additional.”  What is not said is that while you can’t put 
solar on, you’re still paying for it.  As a customer, you’re paying for the Clean 
Energy Program.  The solar program is an expensive part of that.  So here in 
black, you’ve got constituents and you’ve got customers who are paying for a 
program that they can’t participate in.  And this is in a lot of your districts 
right now -- thousands and thousands of people.  
 
If you look at the red, you’re looking at the areas that can 
accommodate no more than 250 kilowatts.  Two hundred fifty kilowatts is 
about 25 homes; we’re talking about a small amount of power.  So that means 
you can’t host community solar there.  You certainly can’t do grid supply 
there.  You can’t host anything but a couple of residential, maybe a small 
retail or warehouse facility.   But essentially that’s pretty close to being closed 
as well.  
 
So you take out the red and black, and that leaves you with the 
yellow.  Yellow goes from up to 500 kW, which, again, is not very big.  You 
still can’t-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Fifty homes. 
 
 
 
47 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Fifty homes.  You got a situation where you still 
can’t do community solar.  You still can’t do grid supply.  So you’re basically 
down to the green, and you’d have to be into the dark green, actually, to get 
into the one-and-a-half megawatt area where you can start to bring in.  
 
This is a pretty serious problem because, right now, under the 
requirements of Atlantic City Electric, they will not take more than three 
megawatts of renewable energy on a circuit.  That’s not a lot.  
 
So we’re dealing with a situation that’s upon us now.  I mean, 
this is not far-reaching, this is not something that exists in the future.  This 
is the way it is today, and it’s a real problem.   
 
I think it’s very important and fair to compliment Atlantic City 
Electric.  I want to repeat that.  I want to compliment Atlantic City Electric, 
and here’s why.  In December of 2020, they proposed a base rate case.  And 
in that base rate case, they, in and of themselves, suggested that $10 million 
of base rates be set aside to begin to open up these circuits.  They had 38 
circuits closed at the time.  They identified 19 transformers that needed to 
be upgraded.  And as soon as we heard about that -- my organization, New 
Jersey Solar Energy Coalition, Lyle, Scott -- we pooled our resources.  We 
hired an attorney, a guy by the name of Bill Potter, who many of you 
know,  and we said, “We’ve got to intervene on this case.  We’ve got to 
support this.” This is the first time any utility has come up and said, “Hey, 
we want to socialize some of these costs.  We have an obligation to these 
customers to open it up.”   
 
We were through.  We were granted, by the judge, intervention 
status.  We participated in the case.  But at the end of the day, and perhaps 
because of the ratepayer advocates’ objections, we learned that the Board of 
 
 
 
48 
Public Utilities staff recommended that the issue not be included in the final 
stipulation of settlement, arguing that socializing grid modernization costs 
was a generic utility issue.  It should be handled not on a one-off basis, but 
in terms of, all the utilities should come to the table. 
 
So in the stipulation of settlement, which we agreed to, it 
suggested that Atlantic City Electric file a new petition; and that this new 
petition could be resolved at the Board with all parties at the table.   
 
That was March of 2021.  So we’re here, more than a year later. 
There’s no petition.  We now have 50 circuits closed, and that’s up from 38 
two years ago.  So the situation is getting worse, and we need to act. 
 
 Now, in fairness, I don’t have to point out that both Jersey 
Central and PSE&G’s territory are nowhere near as challenged as Atlantic 
City’s.  That’s the result of the fact that PSE&G has a much denser 
geographic area.  The low densities are a lot higher.  And as a result of that, 
there’s more forgiveness in the system.  But clearly, they’re headed in the 
same direction, because there are limits. 
 
Now, in fairness, you’re going to hear a number of stories today 
about the interminable utility delays, which are true.  The fact that many of 
these upgrades are astronomical in cost, which is true.  But I think we also 
have to reflect for a minute on a corollary issue about renewable energy and 
its impact on utility earnings.  
 
When a utility loses a customer, they lose throughput, they lose 
sales, they lose revenue.  That loss in revenue results in a lower margin for 
their shareholders.  It results in less expense money to repair the system and 
to hire people to do that.  And, very clearly, it’s not in their best economic 
interest.  They’re dying a death of a thousand cuts.  And here we are, as an 
 
 
 
49 
industry, saying, “Hurry up, hire more people.  Let’s accelerate your 
bankruptcy.”  I mean, maybe I’m exaggerating with bankruptcy, but it’s 
making things very difficult for them.  And clearly, if we’re going to get to the 
point where we’re really going to get 750 megawatts of renewable energy 
every year, we’re going to have to deal with the utility issue.  We’re going to 
have to deal with the construct, the economic construct of how these folks 
make money.  It’s called decoupling; it’s where revenue and sales are decoupled 
so that we don’t end up in a situation where they’re incented by sales, and 
they really take a beating if they lose money.  
 
Now, I would also point out, then, the Clean Energy Act of 2018, 
where we get into energy efficiency.  They were taken care of; they made an 
investment in energy efficiency, they were allowed to earn a return.  If they 
lost money because of energy efficiency, they were allowed to recover those 
lost revenues.  So we essentially decoupled energy efficiency, and we did 
nothing for solar.  Zero. 
 
You have to re-think that policy.  I clearly think that we’re not 
going to get to where we want to go if we don’t do that. 
 
 
Now, quickly, there are three levels of interconnection.  Level 1 
studies are residential; cursory examinations.  It’s 8 to 10 kilowatts; it’s not a 
big deal.  They turn around in three days.  We get 15,000 of these things -- 
up to 15,000 a year, and these things run a quick turnaround.   
 
When you get into the Level 2 and Level 3 -- where we get into 
what the Senator talked about, in terms of grid solutions -- you’re talking 
about significant analyses.  They first charge you up to $30,000 dollars, and 
these studies can take many, many months -- and do, because they’re 
complicated.  They have to do load flow studies, they have to look at 
 
 
 
50 
overloads, they have to look at a lot of things, because these are big projects 
coming on their circuits.  
 
But under the mechanism right now, there is no funding available 
to reopen circuits; zero.  Right now, at the end of the time when they do the 
study, they make a very detailed estimate of all the equipment that is needed 
for upgrade.  Whatever that number is, it debt served on the developer, and 
the developer has to pay it immediately.  If the developer doesn’t pay it, they 
don’t act.  Once it is paid, then the developer knows his cost and can begin 
to commence construction on the project.  But up to that point, nothing can 
occur.  
 
Now, when we talk about the practical solutions of this Bill, I 
think we have to look at the fact that this is an opportunity to really create a 
fund that would be very substantial, on the backs of the development 
community.  And they’re not doing this necessarily because they want to 
provide funding; they’re doing this because, if they don’t do it, they don’t 
have any place to sell.  This is going to grind to a halt.  In Atlantic City 
Electric territory right now, as you can see from the maps, there’s not a lot of 
places to go to sell solar.  And if you don’t have a place to go, you’re not in 
business.   
 
So this Bill offers -- and I think appropriately -- a cost-sharing 
mechanism.  It says, let the developers pay some money; let the utility 
ratepayers pay a share, in an equitable way, so that there’s a balance; and let’s 
move forward to modernizing the grid.  We have to do this, and we have to 
start now. 
 
But let’s talk about the amount of money.  The Bill suggests up 
to $50 a kilowatt for a residential home.  That means the developer would 
 
 
 
51 
send a check for up to $500 to the utility for each home, 15,000 homes a 
year.  That’s $7.5 million.  Now, I’m not suggesting it has to be $50.  Maybe 
in Atlantic City Electric territory, it is because that’s where they need the 
upgrades the most.  But we would assume that in PSE&G and Jersey Central, 
it might be $20, $30, even $10 a kilowatt.   
 
So when you do that, though, you recognize that you could be 
generating up to $7.5 million just from the residential community.  As you 
get to larger projects where there’s a lot more that’s required to be done, here 
you’re talking--  Let’s pick a number; let’s say it’s $100 a kilowatt instead of 
$50, up to.  Multiply that by the residual 600 megawatts of solar on a 750 
desired scale.  That’s $60 million.  Sixty plus $7.5 million -- $67.5 million a 
year that the development community, up to, could put on the table and say, 
“Let’s modernize the grid.  Let’s pay for interconnections with this.” 
 
 What this Bill does is, it then says, “Okay, utilities.  Let’s 
socialize the rest of the cost in a rough justice way.”  It doesn’t mean that any 
individual project is not going to have some number that it knows what it’s 
supposed to be  -- it’s going to be a fixed cost.  If you’re developing something 
in the 50-kilowatt range, the Board of Public Utilities is going to say, “Here’s 
what your fees are.”  They’ll know what it is, they don’t have to wait, there’s 
no study period or anything else.  Because they know that whatever is not 
paid for by the developer is simply going to be kicked in with residual costs 
of the rate base.  And of course, the utilities will learn on the rate base, just 
like they do with the Energy Efficiency Program.  
 
So we think that this is a very good way to balance costs, to get 
moving on moving this grid forward.  We spent hundreds -- not hundreds; 
we spent billions of dollars after Superstorm Sandy making the grid much 
 
 
 
52 
more hardened.   And it helped us all.  I mean, I can’t complain about that; 
that was money well spent.  We didn’t have a lot of outages.  But remember, 
those are billions of dollars that were spent on treating the symptoms of 
climate change.  We’re here now to say, “Let’s go after the cause,” which is, 
“Let’s make the grid the system of highways.”  It’s no longer a system of 
arteries where the heart pumps linearly to peak circuits.  We need an 
integrated system, a modern grid, where you can get on with power at any 
location, and they can go freely in the most efficient way the server will 
load.  That’s where we have to get to.  If we don’t start getting on that road 
right now, I can tell you that the industry is going to start to really close 
down.  We have to make this -- make the decisions on these costs.  
 
 I would finally argue one important thing.  You’re now meeting 
with the Board of Public Utilities.  We’re working with the stakeholder 
groups.  And this is a highly charged technical evaluation.  I mean, you need 
to have an electrical engineering degree really to enter into these discussions. 
We’re talking about reverse currents, we’re talking about Vars, we’re talking 
about all sorts of things.  Let the technical piece reside there.  They’re 
working on the technical.  The I-REC  things are important.  I mean, there’s 
a free application process in here which I think is very, very 
important.  Because what it says is, instead of paying $30,000, pay the utility 
$1,000 and have their engineers look at the wall map and say, “You’re six 
miles from the substation; you’re putting in 3 megawatts.  And you expect 
not to build an express circuit at $1 million a mile back to the substation?”  
 
Immediately you can wash out projects that don’t deserve to take 
a lot of time to study.  And that’s also in the Bill.  If a project comes in and 
the cost is way too high, the Board can say, “Developer, plus what the 
 
 
 
53 
responsibility to the ratepayers is, is still far too -- this project is far beyond 
those bounds.”  So it’s a short circuit or a circuit breaker that says, “If the 
cost gets too high, that project just gets kicked aside.  This is only for low-
hanging fruit.  Let’s get the best projects done quickly.”  
 
So my argument would be, let’s keep the technical stuff away. 
This is about funding.  Because if you create the funding, it’s like if you build 
it, they will come.  And I think this provides an equitable way for the utilities 
to get paid, to earn a return, finally getting through some of these issues of 
decoupling.  And it’s a way for the development community to put an 
equitable share in.  It’s a very, very important Bill-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So two questions. 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Number one, if they’ll pass, how do we 
know the money goes for the purpose intended? 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Well, you have the Board of Public Utilities 
that would have oversight, through rules and regulations, that this money be 
put into a segregated fund, and it be used and drawn down for 
interconnection and for grid modernization purposes.  There would be a 
system of rules and regulations that would have to flow from this. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What impact on ratepayers? 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Well, it’s up to the Board of Public Utilities. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Not a good enough answer.  
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Not a good enough answer.   
 
All right, let’s say, for sake of argument, matching.  Let’s say the 
utility matches what the development community puts in.  In a given year, 
 
 
 
54 
we said up to $67 million; $67 million for all ratepayers.  If we come up with 
$30 million, $30 million for all ratepayers. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, what is that spread over the--   
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Thirty million dollars over all the customers in 
the state--  Wow; I’d be guessing. 
 
Lyle, any idea? 
 
MR. RAWLINGS (off mic):  I’ll get back to you in a second. 
(laughter) 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Let’s wait for him. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right; he’s a witness.  We’ll get it from 
him when he gets up. 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  He’s a witness. 
 
It’s equitable; it has to be fairly shared.  We’ve got to modernize 
the grid.  The grid is 100 years old.  It was designed for a completely different 
purpose.  We need a system of highways; we need a system of byways.  This 
has to be an equal access where you can put power in any place and take it 
out any place.  The only way to get there is to fund it, and let’s leave the 
technical issues to the technicians.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Got it.  
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Thank you, sir.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any questions for Fred? (no response) 
 
All right. 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  I appreciate it. 
 
SENATOR 
SMITH:  
Thank 
you, 
Mr. 
DeSanti; 
most 
appreciated. 
 
MR. DeSANTI:  Thank you. 
 
 
 
55 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Josh Lewin, Helios Solar Energy, LLC, in 
favor. 
J O S H   L E W I N:  Hello; this is Josh Lewin, Helios Solar Energy. 
 
Thank you, everyone on the Committee; and thank you, Senator, 
for doing everything that you’re doing for our industry and things over the 
years.  
 
The reason why I’m here is we have a -- we’ve experienced a lot 
of circuit closures in the Atlantic City area.  These aren’t small projects; 
they’re commercial projects, ranging from 120 kW to a megawatt.  And 
they’re hurting three specific customers that we have.  One has a big data 
center that they’re trying to put in, in the Millville area, which is a low 
economic area that the Governor wants to go after.  Another is a furniture 
store that he runs on tight margins.  He’s changing everything to EV electric 
vehicles, heat pumps, and things like that.  And he finds solar is very helpful 
for him and his stores and distribution centers.  Another is a big union 
contractor down there that wants to change their entire fleets to EVs, and E   
storage, and things like that.  And again, Atlantic City Electric has denied us 
again and again. 
 
We’ve tried multiple different ways to overcome these issues. 
We’ve talked about battery storage and other options with them, and 
everything, unfortunately, fell through.  
 
 So we greatly appreciate what you all are trying to accomplish 
here today.  And we look forward to helping with this help, because what we 
see, as a business owner and things, is basically slow suffocation of our 
business.  And we’ve been doing this for 15 years now.  Not that others here 
haven’t been doing this much longer, and I’m grateful for everyone who has 
 
 
 
56 
come before us and things.  But I don’t see how we’re going to be able to 
meet and (indiscernible) the state’s needs from an energy perspective, but 
also from an employment perspective if the grid continues to slowly close in 
major areas. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Josh. 
 
Ila Gillenwater from MSSIA and CED Greentech, in favor. 
I L A   G I L E N W A T E R:  Thank you; good afternoon. 
 
Yes, I work for CED Greentech.  I’m also on the Board of 
MSSIA.  CED Greentech is a solar equipment distributor.  And so my clients 
are the developers of commercial, municipal, and residential; people who are 
selling and installing solar across our great state.  
 
You know, New Jersey’s been committed to renewables with an 
aggressive stance for a long time, with an aggressive energy plan.  And as a 
result, we have a huge industry here, employing over 7,000 people.  And 
what’s happening is, those solar developers are seeing a harder and harder 
time getting projects done.   
 
I thought it might be helpful for the Committee to hear a few 
examples of those types of projects.  So I reached out to my base, and they 
sent information on projects that were thwarted over the last few years.  And 
it’s interesting; they’re across all the different utilities, and they’re also across 
different types of projects.  So while, yes, ACE is one that is primarily on the 
list, PSE&G is there, as is JCP&L.  They’re residential projects; they’re 
municipal school projects, which I think is a big concern -- municipal schools; 
and PSE&G in Newark and Washington Township.  There are municipal 
schools in Gloucester County; there are projects in Upper Township, which 
 
 
 
57 
is ACE.  JCP&L has projects that have been denied for Community 
Solar.  They were a dual-use between Community Solar and commercial 
usage. 
 
There are also some very large projects in ACE, like a 1.2-
megawatt commercial project, where the developers often find that the 
utilities take months, 12 to 24 months, to get back to them.  And by the time 
that comes back, they’re asking for $700,000 worth of work.  And it makes 
the project undoable and not able to move forward.  
 
So one of the things that has come up over again -- I mentioned 
it earlier that I’m in the solar equipment arena.  And the solar equipment has 
the capability to make it so that the power does not have to be fed back to 
the grid.  And that’s been a complaint from the utilities -- is that their concern 
is that feedback to the grid.  Well, their technology is there to cut it off, and 
they seem to ignore that fact.  That’s what the developers are telling me. 
 
 So as Mr. Lewin pointed out, what’s happening is there are less 
and less projects being able to move forward.  And it’s really hurting the jobs 
in our state.  As I mentioned, 7,000 people are employed in our 
industry.  And as the jobs are not being able to be fulfilled, those jobs aren’t 
getting built.  And so their unemployment is growing in our sector.  
 
I’m happy to answer any questions if you have any. 
 
Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any questions? (no response) 
 
Thank you very much for your testimony.  
 
Doug O’Malley; oh, I’m sorry.  Senator Durr. 
 
SENATOR DURR:  I’d like to hear from somebody who is 
against it. 
 
 
 
58 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  There’s only one slip against.  Let’s get the 
against. 
 
Opposed is Melissa Sims, Ecological Systems LLC. 
 
Ms. Sims, in opposition. 
M E L I S A   S I M S:  Okay. 
 
My name’s Melissa Sims.  I own a solar company; it’s a family-
owned and run business called Ecological Systems.  We’re in Monmouth 
County, but we work all over New Jersey. 
 
 I should say I support the idea, in general, that we need to 
modernize the grid, of course.  However, this Bill needs amendments; it needs 
work.  So I can’t say I’m 100 percent supportive of this Bill.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So what amendments would you like?   
 
MS. SIMS:  So--  Well, first, let me say a couple of 
things.   Recently we’ve had projects specifically in Atlantic City Electric 
territory. They’re smaller projects; like I said, we are a residential and small 
commercial.  So we have one residential and one small commercial that we 
can’t get through in Atlantic City Electric territory.  So that’s a huge -- that’s 
a huge problem.  If my company is having this problem, this is widespread 
across everyone.  
 
But there are solutions that we have in the ground right now to 
help modernize the grid.  We talked about low-hanging fruit often in this 
industry -- what the utility companies can do right now that is not that--  Like 
Ila just said, there are solutions that we have right now which are--  We have 
frequency modulation or reversing power at substations.  And, of course, 
battery storage.  These are all solutions that can help us open the closed 
circuits.  
 
 
 
59 
 
One issue I have is the -- with the I-RECs  standards.  I don’t 
believe we should be adopting I-RECs standards.  I don’t think they’re--  We 
already have an interconnection procedure.  I don’t think we need to revisit 
that.  We already have that procedure in place.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What is it in the I-RECs standards that you 
disagree with? 
 
MS. SIMS:  Well, I just -- I don’t know why we need--  We 
already have a procedure-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So it’s theoretical.  Every other witness 
said  that these interconnections are a nightmare.  So we’re trying to make it 
a little bit faster, a little bit more efficient. 
 
MS. SIMS:  Well, we already have the procedure.  It’s just that 
the grid modernization is the issue.  So I think they’re two separate things. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
SENATOR DURR:  So you’re saying that the procedures would 
work if the grid was modern.  
 
MS. SIMS:  Yes.  
 
So it should be the public utilities’ job to make the grid solar-
ready.  It’s beneficial to everyone in New Jersey.   
 
There are already tremendous fees being collected on every 
utility bill.  I am concerned that if we--  We have this fund; we need to make 
sure we know exactly where it’s going, exactly how it’s being used.   
 
I also take issue with the Level 1 interconnection, which is 10 
kW and under, which is usually for a residence.  It doesn’t have to be for 
residences, but it usually is.  So those systems are already at the point of 
 
 
 
60 
use.   I don’t know why we’re adding an extra fee to that.  The system is 
already there, so I don’t know why we would charge another fee for that.  
 
So instead of public utilities--  We really need to be working 
smarter with the solutions we already have in place.  I, 100 percent, agree 
that we have a huge grid infrastructure problem.  We need to modernize it, 
but we also need to reach for the low-hanging fruit that we already have in 
place to modernize that.  And that needs to be brought up, and that needs to 
be recognized, and we need to call attention to it.  
 
So thank you.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We appreciate your comments. 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Next, Doug O’Malley, Environment New 
Jersey, in favor. 
 
MR. O’MALLEY:  In favor. 
 
Doug O’Malley, Environment New Jersey.  
 
We support this Bill because -- for the simple reason that without 
a working electric grid, the Wizard of Menlo Park would just be an 
experimenter, right?  And that’s, I think, the critical thing to remind ourselves 
-- is that we have an electric grid that does not work for Clean Energy projects 
in a vast amount of the state.  And I’m deeply appreciative for Fred DeSanti’s 
testimony and the map he provided to members of the Committee; and also 
the work of Atlantic City Electric.  They recognize that this is an issue; they 
want to fix this.   
 
And I also want to note, this isn’t just Atlantic City Electric, this 
isn’t just South Jersey.  This is also increasingly in service areas in JCP&L’s 
service territory as well.  
 
 
 
61 
 
So we obviously need a statewide solution.  Because right now 
we’re seeing a -- essentially, a de facto solar moratorium in place for certain 
parts of the state.  I’d also want to emphasize the critical nature of offshore 
wind, and the fact that the BPU is working with PJM on a process on how 
we’re going to accommodate a massive influx of literally thousands of 
megawatts of offshore wind onto the electric grid.  We can’t do that with a 
19th-century grid or 20th-century grid.  We need to make those 
investments.   And as we heard, there would be basically -- developers would 
be chipping in as well as utilities.  There was a question on, kind of, what the 
cost ultimately will be. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
MR. O’MALLEY:   And I believe Lyle Rawlings will testify to 
that a little later.  But the cost is not significant, in the sense that it’s -- all 
costs are significant, but it’s 0.004 cents.  All costs are significant but, in this 
case, this is not just a question of what the cost is.  It’s a question of, can the 
cost ultimately save us by getting more clean energy onto the grid -- which, 
as the Chairman noted, will actually reduce energy load in the highest 
demand times, right?  So this is ultimately--  We don’t want to strangle clean 
energy projects before they can get onto the grid, and that’s what we’re seeing 
right now.  
 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Doug. 
 
Andy Wall, from Ad Energy, in favor. 
A N D Y   W A L L:  Hi.  Thanks for the opportunity to testify.  
 
My name is Andy Wall.  I run a residential installation company 
here in New Jersey, based down in West Berlin, New Jersey.  
 
 
 
62 
 
And I am in favor of the Bill.  
 
What I wanted to communicate here was--  I think, for obvious 
reasons, if we want to put up a lot of solar in the state, we have to have a 
place to put it.  So I think it’s pretty obvious that something is needed to be 
done, given the feeder closures that you’ve seen.  
 
I wanted to talk about a kind of second-order effect, a deleterious 
second-order effect that the closed feeders cause. 
 
 So in residential solar, which is what we focus on, it is more 
expensive than larger-scale solar that you might do.  What is perhaps less well 
understood is that, while there are some diseconomies of scale that create 
that extra cost, most of that cost is from marketing costs.  It’s kind of getting 
the word out.  We’re still knocking on doors; we’re still pounding the phones 
-- that sort of thing.   
 
And so what we’re trying to do, I think it’s fair to say, is 
transition this market from kind of the early adopters to when it’s 
mainstream.  The cheapest customer who we acquire is the customer who has 
a neighbor who already went solar and calls our office.  You know, that costs 
next to nothing.  
 
Now, closed feeders almost surgically target, or prevent, that 
from 
happening 
because 
these 
closed 
feeders 
are 
geographically 
clustered.  Neighbors live on the same feeder.  So what ends up happening is, 
that transition from early adopter to mainstream gets stifled just as it’s 
building up some momentum.  And that means that solar for the state -- at 
least in our corner of the market, in residential -- ends up costing work 
because we have to go out and knock on more doors in new areas to find 
them. 
 
 
 
63 
 
 That’s all I wanted to say.  Thanks. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Andy. 
 
 The next witness is Baoli Wang from U.S. Clean Energy, in 
favor. 
B A O L I   W A N G,   Ph.D.:  Yes, I’m in favor of the Bill. 
 
I had a very bad experience with Atlantic City Electric 
connection.  
 
And in April of last year, I started a NET meter 
application.  They spent almost six months reviewing the design, back-and-
forth, and then said the design passed the review.  And then later they said 
that they need to continue to study the grid, and that we need to pay 
$10,000, and that they need three to four more months to finish the review. 
 
 And a full month later, they said the grid needs about a 
$160,000 upgrade.  And it also needs-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Wow; and that’s to do--  How big a solar 
system were you-- 
 
DR. WANG:  It’s a 1.2 mega DC and 800 AC.  They need 
$160,000 to upgrade-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No, no, no.  I’m asking about the 
upgrade.  What is it you were trying to service with solar energy?  Was it your 
house, was it a business? 
 
DR. WANG:  This is a commercial warehouse. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay. 
 
DR. WANG:  Another to handle the $44,000 to upgrade 
telecommunications using fiber optics.  So basically, it killed the project. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Okay.   
 
 
 
64 
 
Anything else? 
 
DR. WANG:  Yes; also another experience we had--  The 
Township permitted the project, right?  They asked permitting fees of 
$51,000 for the connection.  No, for the Township permit fee approval to 
install.  But for comparison, I have some other similar commercial project 
that is only a few thousand dollars.  What they’re charging, they are trying 
to base on the (indiscernible) kW chart permitting fee, and that’s electrical   
-- or at least $35,000; than the other fees on top of that is $51,000.  It’s too 
much. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Absolutely. 
 
Thank you very much for your comments. 
 
DR. WANG:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Lyle Rawlings, MSSIA. 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  
 
If you’ll permit me, I’d like to give you a handout.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Sure. 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Did you get that number that Fred was 
asking about? 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:   I did, and I actually told it to Doug O’Malley 
incorrectly, unfortunately.  So I’d like to correct it. 
 
 The number -- when you spread $30 million over all of the 
state’s power -- is 0.04 cents per kilowatt-hour.  And that’s still pretty 
tiny.  It’s an extremely small fraction of people’s bills.  
 
So this issue has been identified by the Mid-Atlantic Solar and 
Storage Industries Association’s Board as the number one issue that we need 
to address this year.  It’s highly urgent, and our members are desperate.  The 
 
 
 
65 
kinds of stories that you heard before -- and you’re hearing from several other 
MSSIA members today, including me, and four members of our Board are 
here to speak today, which speaks to the urgency.  Our members are all telling 
us that they are getting shut down by numerous projects.  Many members are 
saying they’re abandoning Atlantic City Electric territory all together; many, 
many members doing that.  
 
I don’t know if you’ve seen the sheet yet; has that gone 
around?  Yes? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  So the first page of that was already spoken 
about 
eloquently 
by 
Fred 
DeSanti; 
Atlantic 
City 
Electric 
territory.  It’s  already become legendary.  It’s been shutting down for many, 
many years already.  And when you look at the screenshot -- that’s your first 
page -- of Atlantic City Electric’s web page that shows hosting capacity, and 
you see these large black areas -- much larger areas now than before -- 
completely shut down.  You see these large red areas where it’s severely, 
severely restricted.  It’s been bad for several years, and it’s getting a lot worse. 
 
But even more concerningly, if you look at the second page -- 
that was back in February of 2020 when I made a presentation at a 
stakeholder meeting at the BPU about the infrastructure crisis that we 
identified at the time.  And that’s a zoomed-in view of the only really bad 
areas in JCP&L at the time.  And you can see two red blobs; those are severely 
restricted to under 50 kilowatts.  Those red blobs were what I zoomed in on 
as the worst areas in JCP&L territory.  There were only two, relatively small 
areas, and it was making the point that there are some problems 
 
 
 
66 
coming.  Here are two scary red blobs, but the rest of JCP&L territory, at the 
time, was coded green, which is relatively open; or yellow, slightly restricted. 
 
 On the next page, what you can see is a zoomed-out view of a 
portion of JCP&L territory, where it’s turned all red.  And that’s in February 
of 2022, when these slides were presented at another stakeholder meeting 
out of the BPU.  So in just two years, we went, in JCP&L, from just two small 
red blobs to a situation in which literally all of JCP&L territory is mostly red, 
with only a little bit of green and yellow.  In other words, it flipped just in 
the course of two years.  
 
Now, the last page is a depiction of a certain area within PSE&G 
territory.  PSE&G is in much better shape.  But you can see there is a large 
area of red between Springfield, New Jersey, and Bristol, PA, that has turned 
red. So it’s coming on like a freight train in PSE&G; it’s already here, pretty 
bad, in JCP&L; and Atlantic City Electric -- not to put too fine a point on it 
-- it’s closing down the solar.   
 
So it’s also important to note the self-accelerating nature of this 
problem.  If you’re trying to fit the same amount of solar every year into a 
shrinking geography, then you’ve got the same amount going into less area. 
That’s going to accelerate this process.  If, per the Energy Master Plan, you 
want to accelerate the amount of solar you’re doing every year, it’s double 
acceleration.  You’re doing more, and more, and more, in less and less 
territory every year.   
 
So we expect this to be a hockey stick-shaped curve, where the 
pace of the problem is going to self accelerate.  And we believe that right now 
we’re on the up-facing curve of that, of that hockey stick-shaped problem.  So 
the urgency is extremely high in our membership.  
 
 
 
67 
 
Now, this is an extremely important Bill.  The part about 
socializing a portion of the cost of upgrading the system is necessary for a 
couple of different reasons.  One is, the situation we’ve had in the past is a 
little ludicrous.  You can have a circuit that’s completely open at the 
beginning.  You start to do a few solar projects on that circuit, maybe 5, 10, 
20, 30 projects, and then just the last one in has to pay for upgrades for the 
whole circuit after a large number of projects got a free ride.  It’s like a game 
of musical chairs.  The last one in pays the entire freight.  That can’t 
continue; it’s illogical.  Furthermore, the types of measures we’re going to 
need in the very near future, and really now, are system-wide upgrades.  And 
you can’t do that project by project, and say to one project, “You’ve got to 
pay for system-wide upgrades.”  That just won’t work at all.  
 
So we need a comprehensive statewide solution, and that’s why, 
as Fred noted, we have to start to socialize these costs so that we can do these 
system-wide upgrades that are needed.   
 
We need a modern grid that’s ready for renewables; so a 
renewable-ready grid.  We don’t have that, and we need a comprehensive 
solution that will get us there.  
 
Now, this socializing sharing formula that Fred has proposed 
isn’t what we would prefer.  We think the societal utility compact that’s been 
in place for 100 years is, utilities do what’s necessary to make the grid ready 
for what society wants.  So we think it should be fully socialized.  But we 
recognize that, because of the concerns on the other side of the consumer 
protection entities in this state, we need a compromise.  So we’re supportive 
of that.  
 
 
 
68 
 
I think probably the most important thing we want to say today 
is that this lays the framework for how we move forward into a modern future 
that can really support the transition to renewable energy -- that we want by 
2030, and that we want by 2050 -- 100 percent.  But we have an urgent 
problem now.  We are shutting down this industry, and businesses are leaving 
the state entirely because they don’t see a future.  They’re leaving large 
portions of this.  We need some urgent measures that can be done now.  And 
there is low-hanging fruit.  MSSIA has identified at least four really easy, low-
cost to no-cost measures that can open up these circuits again.  That’s what 
we need -- is we need to start reopening these circuits to solar development. 
 
 Now, this is new policy not contained in this Bill.  Perhaps this 
needs to be in a separate bill, but this needs to happen.  We’ve got to capture 
this low-hanging fruit; these four simple ideas that are a recipe to reopen these 
circuits now, and we have to do that urgently.  We can’t just study the 
problem for the next couple of years. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So Lyle, the four low-hanging fruit -- have 
you forwarded something to us on that? 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  We have not yet; we are ready to do so. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, so one question about the Bill-- 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Yes. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --is, maybe we should set them up as 
priorities.  But we can’t unless we know what they are. 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Of course, yes.  And we do intend to send 
those to you.  They’re very simple and easy to express.  And a lot of it is the 
standards we have in place.  Not the procedural standards, as Melissa was 
saying; the procedural standards right now are not that bad.  They do 
 
 
 
69 
work.   It’s the grid itself, and how we look at the grid, how utilities look at 
the grid that’s not working.   
 
So the limitations need to be done away with.   Those limitations 
-- I represented the solar industry when interconnect standards were first 
introduced way back in the year 2000.  It was a different world.  We had a 
few tiny residential solar systems at that point.  Now we have thousands of 
megawatts of solar.  So those antiquated standards from the year 2000 don’t 
work anymore.  So we have to throw out the limitations that say only a small 
percentage of the throughput of a substation can be allowed on.   
 
Any place in the world that does large amounts of solar will put 
enough solar on a substation to reverse flow through that substation.  And 
that currently is not allowed in New Jersey.  We will not get there without 
allowing reverse flow through substations.  That’s one of the four. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Now you’re getting into the technical that 
Fred said, “Let somebody else think about it.”   
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Well, you could say that. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But I’d like to see what the four low-
hanging fruit are, and we’ll take a look at it. 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Yes, and that’s one of them, yes. 
 
And it is technical, but it’s common-sense stuff that we need to 
do urgently. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good. 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Kyle Wallace, Sunrun, in favor. 
 
Mr. Wallace. 
 
 
 
70 
K Y L E   W A L L A C E:  Thank you, Chairman, members of the 
Committee.  
 
My name is Kyle Wallace.  I’m the Director of Public Policy for 
Sunrun, the nation’s largest residential solar and storage installer in the 
country.  We have over 690,000 customers, including over 40,000 in New 
Jersey, with over 600 New Jersey employees across the state.  
 
We are in strong support of Senate Bill 431.  This is an incredibly 
necessary Bill to modernize the grid, and the interconnection standards and 
technical requirements.  We believe the IRF model standards is a really good 
template to start from.  It handles the whole host of issues that are currently 
not included in New Jersey’s interconnection standards, such as non-export 
systems, and helping deal with how you deal with batteries and some of the 
newer technical standards that didn’t exist at the time when New Jersey 
established their current rules. 
 
 The real core of it is, it’s clear that closed circuits, in our view, 
from a residential perspective -- I can’t tell you how frustrating it is that we 
have customers who have been calling for years, trying to get solar on their 
home, and they have been unable to do so because of these closed circuits.  I 
mean, these have been an issue since at least 2016, and they’ve been growing, 
and it’s a real problem.  
 
If you look at the data from the New Jersey Clean Energy 
Program,  residential installations in ACE are down 60 percent from 2016; 
and that’s been accelerating.  And that’s just truly a fairness and access issue 
-- that these customers are paying into these programs, they deserve the right 
to be able to interconnect a system to the grid, just like their neighbors; just 
 
 
 
71 
like the folks in northern New Jersey where this is less of an issue, but a 
growing possibility that an issue will be right around the corner. 
 
The Energy Master Plan even cites this as a specific issue that 
could grind renewable development to a halt.  We were really glad to see that, 
but here we are, a couple of years later, and still nothing has been done about 
it.  We really need to act, because, as Lyle mentioned, we really do see this 
accelerating across the state.  And while it is primarily ACE right now, it’s 
going to spread.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And by the way, I forgot to mention it 
when Lyle was here, but most of our witnesses are talking about this Bill from 
an industry perspective.  But there’s another perspective to this as 
well.  We’ve invested somewhat in making our grid more sustainable in the 
event of weather events, etc.  But the same kinds of things that we’re doing 
here to strengthen the grid, or modernize the grid, would help to stabilize it 
in the event of those weather events, correct? 
 
MR. WALLACE:  Yes, it could.  That’s if you have holistic 
planning for the grid, and you’re using these upgrades, and doing it 
strategically to make sure you’re putting in the right equipment.  Absolutely. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
MR. WALLACE:  And just as a hypothetical, just to show the 
importance of this -- this grid modernization fee structure.  If you had this 
fee in place in 2016 for those ACE customers when they were still at, kind 
of, the peak of the residential installations, you’d be bringing in over $3 
million a year, in 2016, 2017, 2018, to help fund these upgrades, which 
would have prevented these circuits from being closed in the first place.  And 
when you consider the cost was only $10 million to reopen all of these areas 
 
 
 
72 
in the last rate case, that would have been covered in just a matter of years 
under these fees.  And so it really shows that this can be a really significant 
driver of ensuring that there doesn’t need to be as much rate basing as maybe 
some may believe there will be.  I think that these fees can do a significant 
amount of that. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  By the way, you make an interesting 
point.   Maybe one of the things we should consider here is a sunset provision 
when the grid is modernized, or a reduction when the grid is modernized.  
 
And by the way, I’d love to have some-- 
 
SENATOR DURR:  How about not at all? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but it’s a possibility. 
 
You know, when we accomplish the purpose, that may not be the 
worst way to do it.  Also, it probably makes it a little more salable to our 
constituents.  And I think they realize that you have to have a grid--  By the 
way, next time Ida comes here, you’re going to have people knocking on our 
doors big time.   
 
But part of the selling point to this is that we’re going to have a 
strengthened grid.  And if we have a sunset so that the fees just don’t continue 
on forever, or they get reduced, or whatever -- once the BPU has made that 
determination -- that might be something we should consider. 
 
MR. WALLACE:  And that’s where I believe the Bill has a three-
year cycle that the BPU would review these fees and make the changes.  And 
the way that I envision it -- granted, I don’t know if the BPU would fully 
agree -- I do see these fees being a utility-specific fee based on the actual 
upgrade needs.  And that they would change over time.  They’d go up when 
 
 
 
73 
you have those upgrades, and then they might go down if you can have a five-
year period where you have fewer upgrades that are needed.   
 
So we really do think it’s a dynamic mechanism that can really 
help ensure that every customer has a right to interconnect.   
 
 As a solar developer, we never love an additional fee.  That’s 
never something we’re happy about.  But if the exchange is always being able 
to have our customers interconnect, we view that as a worthwhile trade-off. 
 
 And also on the kind of ratepayer cost perspective--  I think that 
that is a little bit misplaced in that, if these parts of the grid are so limited in 
their capabilities that one more residential solar PV system -- it can’t handle 
that, how is it going to handle all the electric vehicles and the heat 
pumps?  These upgrades are going to have to happen.  It’s not a matter of if, 
it's when.  And if you don’t have the solar developers paying in and covering 
some of those costs, who is going to bear those costs?  It’s going to be 100 
percent ratepayers.  So in my view, this is a way that helps reduce the overall 
ratepayer impact over time, unless you believe that no upgrades will actually 
be necessary.  And I don’t know that anyone would really think that that’s 
realistic. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Very interesting point; thank you. 
 
MR. WALLACE:  So yes, we’re very supportive.  This still differs 
from the BPU, and I think that it complements the work they’re doing in the 
interconnection proceeding.  If they are able to embrace smart inverter 
technology, energy storage, limited or non-export interconnections, I think 
we can reduce the need for upgrades through those technical changes, while 
also providing more stable funding for those upgrades when they are 
necessary.  
 
 
 
74 
 
So I think they go hand-in-hand.  This is a policy issue; it’s not 
a technical one.  It’s how we want to pay for these upgrades.  And so I believe 
this Bill is the right vehicle. 
 
I appreciate it. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Mr. Wallace. 
 
Any questions for Mr. Wallace? 
 
SENATOR DURR:  I just feel adamant against--  These are 
private businesses, right? 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but the grid’s not private.  And if we 
don’t have it solved-- 
 
SENATOR DURR:  It’s like a pizza shop charging me for a pizza 
and asking me to provide the oven for it. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t see it that way, Ed.  We may    
differ-- 
 
SENATOR DURR:  I agree; the upgrades need to be made.  But 
taxpayers shouldn’t have to pay for the upgrades.  They’re already paying for 
the electric.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but if the electric can’t get to them, 
that’s the problem they have.  I mean, I see all these ancillary benefits.  Yes, 
it’s good for the solar industry; yes, it’s good for EVs; yes, it’s good for 
whatever the purpose may be.  But at the end of the day, if we don’t have a 
grid that works, we’re in trouble.  And it’s that much more vulnerable when 
these weather events come.  So my biggest selling point here is, we have to 
finish the job on the grid, as well as I think of the ancillary benefits.  And 
now you have somebody contributing to the cost.  That’s where I thought it 
was one of the winning comments. 
 
 
 
75 
 
But thank you, Mr. Wallace. 
 
MR. WALLACE:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Lauren Kahme, Ecogy Energy, in favor. 
 
MS. KAHME:  Thank you, Chairman, for the time. 
 
I’ll make it brief. 
 
Yes, Ecogy Energy supports this Bill.  Our only concern -- we 
share the concerns that Lyle expressed on behalf of MSSIA.  But we’re 
particularly concerned with the language in the Bill that does not define the 
fee that would be required above 10 kW.  
 
We understand that this is -- you’re giving deference to the BPU 
to set these fees.  But as a developer, from a developer’s perspective, if you’re 
giving the authority of the language of the Bill to set the fee at $50 per kW 
for projects under -- like, 10 or under, we would urge the Committee to 
consider making similar authority of decisions with projects above that.  It 
would just give more project certainty in our financial projections to know 
what that fee would be while we’re developing in New Jersey. 
 
 So I thank you for your time.  That was the main issue, but we 
also share the concerns that MSSIA displayed today. 
 
Thank you.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments.  
 
Scott Elias, Solar Energy Industries Association, in favor. 
 
MR. ELIAS:  I guess it’s good afternoon now. (laughter) 
 
Scott Elias with the Solar Energy Industries Association.  
 
 
I want to focus on a couple of things here.  We already heard 
how inadequate interconnection policy has posed a threat to New Jersey’s 
Clean Energy bills, and I want to help -- make that a little bit more tangible. 
 
 
 
76 
 
 You can think about interconnection kind of like the rules of the 
road that carry energy from its origin to its final destination.  And just like 
we need to often update our roads, we also need to make sure that 
interconnection policies evolve and keep pace so that these hypothetical 
roads and bridges are not broken, preventing energy from going from one 
destination to another.  
 
I think the I-REC standards are about process; that is 
correct.  And while I don’t think this Bill adjudicates some of the technical 
details -- that’s smart -- there are a number of things that are missing from 
the current processes.  So for example, right now there’s not something called 
a pre-application report.  And that is something that’s extremely important, in 
particular for the community solar industry.  As the name would suggest, 
basically a developer would be able to apply; note their project location, the 
size.  This would typically be for projects over 500 kilowatts.  And for a 
modest fee the utility would be able to let them know a reasonable estimate 
of the interconnection viability.  So a reasonable estimate of the cost upfront 
before either the developer or the utility goes further down the process.  This 
saves time, this saves money.  And if a project is extremely cost-prohibitive, 
the developer is not going to continue to develop in that specific location.  So, 
in particular, I want to highlight that. 
 
 There are also different, sort of, dispute mechanism resolutions 
contained within the I-REC models.  And New Jersey does not have a current 
process 
that 
adequately 
handles 
when 
there 
are 
disputes 
over 
interconnection, such as whether or not the utility is adhering to the timelines 
or things of that nature.  This pre-application report concept I mentioned is 
something that is a no-regrets approach in over 12 states.  And again, I think 
 
 
 
77 
this is a huge improvement, particularly if we do want to see at least 150 
megawatts of community solar each year.  
 
We heard a little bit today about the current problem of closed 
circuits 
and 
how 
New 
Jersey 
unfairly 
allocates 
costs 
for 
grid 
modernization.   And I want to just note that what this Bill does is, it really 
empowers the BPU and the utilities to come up with a better way to unlock 
areas of the grid that accommodate more distributed resources, like solar.  If 
upgrades are required to accommodate additional solar on a circuit, it is, as 
Lyle mentioned, the unlucky project that triggers the upgrade, and they’re 
the ones that have to pay for the full cost, even if the upgrade results in 
additional benefits to several subsequent interconnection customers and New 
Jersey’s ratepayers at large. 
 
 The way I would think of it -- it’s kind of like moving.  Let’s say 
you move to a new neighborhood; it’s Trenton.  And you decide you want to 
pay for Internet service.  But if you stream that Netflix show, that is the 
tipping point that will break the network.  You can either pay thousands of 
dollars to be able to watch the Netflix show, and be able to access the Internet 
to be able to do online shopping or whatever it is you want to do with the 
Internet; or you can’t access the Internet at all.  And if you pay for these 
upgrades, it’s not just you who is going to be benefiting from it; you’re also 
going to pay to make sure that the Internet speed for all of your neighbors -- 
and for anyone else who moves to Trenton after that  -- is able to have faster 
Internet and doesn’t have the same sort of predicament.   
 
Obviously, it’s unfair if you are the first mover.  If you’re 
Company A and you’re paying 100 percent for Company B, C, D and E, and 
that is the issue of the first mover, the cost causer -- whatever you want to call 
 
 
 
78 
it; there are a number of different names for it in the industry -- this Bill seeks 
to resolve that.  It’s not necessarily about making sure that ratepayers are 
paying for everything.  It’s about changing the paradigm that doesn’t work, 
which makes it unfair for certain developers based on who gets there first.  
 
And what this Bill is suggesting as an alternative model, is 
basically a model that has cost-sharing that equitably shares the cost of 
upgrading these infrastructure upgrades across multiple customers who 
benefit from them; and repairs at large.  It’s a multi-beneficiary cost approach 
-- similar to what Massachusetts is considering -- where a developer has 
contributions capped on a dollar-per-kilowatt-hour basis and the remaining 
costs are socialized among utility ratepayers.  This will help bring much more 
clean energy online.  And, put simply, this Bill is creating an innovative 
approach that distributes these costs across multiple projects.  It enables 
proactive grid investments that are necessary for New Jersey’s clean energy 
future, whether it’s hardening the grid to prevent outages, whether it’s 
reopening closed circuits that are closed, or whether it’s just simply 
modernizing the grid. 
 
 So for all these reasons, SEIA is in support of this Bill.  And I 
think a lot of the details that people want to discuss, those technical details, 
will be worked out through the BPU process that this Bill prescribes. 
 
Thank you, and I’m happy to answer any questions. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We appreciate your comments; they were 
very helpful. 
 
 Ben Graziano and Jeremy Conner; I think you guys got up 
before-- 
 
MR. GRAZIANO (off mic):  We did. 
 
 
 
79 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  -- but you’re allowed to come back. 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  Thank you. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And if you can briefly tell us what you’d 
like to see in the way of amendments.  
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  Absolutely.  
 
As I said, this is -- I’m with Jeremy Connor from Novitium 
Energy; they are an NEP partner. 
 
We have a few amendments we’d like to request. 
 
 First and foremost, if the Bill wants to have the desired impact 
that everyone spoke about, I think that it should have some accountability 
for the utilities.  I’d like to see it where, if anything, if they fail to meet their 
obligation, there should be a penalty phase structured in there.  And as 
Jeremy can go into a little bit more detail-- 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Penalty fees against the utilities? 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  Yes, if they fail to do the upgrades in a timely 
manner or meet certain standards that the BPU has.  There’s simply no 
accountability now.  And as they can tell you, a number of these companies 
have said they’ve paid for upgrades and are waiting; I mean, in some cases, 
over a year now, for anything to be done.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So why don’t you send in some 
recommendations about what you think the penalties should be. 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  We will.  Joey and I have been in 
communication, so we’ll get everything in writing; we will. 
 
Secondly, a fee structure for commercial projects; someone else 
had mentioned it as well.  We would support that so there’s stability in the 
 
 
 
80 
marketplace.  So for commercial producers, like Jeremy here, they would 
understand what those costs would be upfront.  
 
And lastly, inclusion of other technologies, like battery storage; 
NetZero export, which we can go into a little bit more detail on.  We think 
that should be included in the Massachusetts bill, as mentioned.  That’s in 
that legislation, that pending legislation, so we’d like to see that incorporated 
in this one as well.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So if you wouldn’t mind, and even though 
the hour is late, can you, in three minutes, tell us about the NetZero 
suggestion?  
J E R E M Y   C O N N O R:  Hi,  this is Jeremy  Connor from Novitium 
Energy.  I’m a solar developer here in New Jersey.  I’ve been here for 13-plus 
years.  
 
So basically, what we’re talking about right now is -- the big issue 
is, the grid or the utilities do not want power to go back to their 
infrastructure.  They don’t want us to export power to their infrastructure.   
 
So we’ve actually done this in New Jersey; it actually has 
happened.  It’s been in operation for two-plus years.  It’s a commercial school 
district, so it’s a big user with the utility here in New Jersey.   So basically, 
we have a control system that will basically not allow the energy to be 
exported to the utility.  It basically shuts down the inverters, or shuts the 
system down, or ramps the inverters down so they’ll produce less energy. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  So I think what members need to 
know is, why would the utility be concerned.  And the answer is, they’re 
afraid that might destabilize the grid and cause a blackout.   
 
 
 
81 
 
So what the gentleman is talking about is, if we’re generating 
electricity, we can stop it from going into the grid. 
 
MR. CONNOR:  Correct. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Am I right? 
 
MR. CONNOR:  Or you have a user, as an example, a 
manufacturer, that we can only put 50 percent of the load on.  There’s not 
enough room on their roof or their parking lot, so they’re never going to 
export because they just use so much energy.  But even in that scenario, the 
utility will not allow them, because they’re saying they don’t want the chance 
that that may go back to their grid; even though this technology is proven, 
and we’ve done it in the State of New Jersey.  It’s been in operation for two 
years. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Has it been done in other states? 
 
MR. CONNOR:  It’s been done in Hawaii; it’s been done, I 
think, in Connecticut and Massachusetts; it’s been all over the country. 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  New York, I believe-- 
 
MR. CONNOR:  So it’s proven technology.  This is not new 
technology that just happened a couple of months ago, or a year ago. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  And so my understanding, again, 
of why there would be a lot of resistance from utilities -- even though they’re 
not agreeing to the connection because they think it’s going to upset the 
stability of the grid -- but in effect, you’re taking new markets from 
them.  The utility always wants to have more customers that they can deliver 
electricity to.  And this makes it much easier for a private developer to 
provide the electricity through renewables for a facility.  But they have to 
 
 
 
82 
agree -- they can’t destabilize the grid.  The utilities would still not like it 
because you’re taking new customers away from them. 
 
Am I missing the point, or is that it? 
 
MR. CONNOR:  Correct. 
 
I think the other opposition is that the utility feels that they’ve 
already approved other people in that area who we’re going to export that 
power to the grid.  And they were hoping that that building is going to take 
that power.  Their argument is, if that building goes dark or is no longer there, 
they can’t make that user use power.  And that’s another opposition to this 
scenario as well. 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right.  So this Bill has enough 
controversy in its current form.  So I think I’m going to introduce a separate 
Bill on the net export concept that you have, which this -- it deserves its day 
in the sun as well,  no pun intended (laughter) -- so we can see what the 
benefit is for the State of New Jersey, 
 
But this Bill, with the I-REC standards and the sharing costs, has 
enough controversy.  
 
Well, we had some ideas today.  Send in your cards and letters. 
 
June 9 is our next meeting.  I don’t know if we’re going to be 
ready, but we’re going to take a look at these Bills and see what we can 
hopefully get into a final form, or a pretty good final form.   
 
Did you have more you wanted to say? 
 
MR. CONNOR:  We had more, yes. 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  We just-- 
 
MR. CONNOR:  So I just wanted--  A lot of people brought up 
examples about projects taking a year or two years.  I just wanted to give you 
 
 
 
83 
one example of a project that we’re doing for a school district that needs the 
savings and needs the opportunity to use renewable energy.  
 
We worked with Atlantic City Electric on a project for a school 
district.  We started the interconnection process in October of 2019.  It took 
four months to even hear feedback from them on how they were going to 
proceed with the utility interconnection, after numerous attempts to call 
them and try to find out what was going on.   
 
They came back with a million-dollar upgrade to upgrade the 
infrastructure for this project; which, two months later, we received an 
invoice, and we paid the invoice in full.  We paid $1 million for the upgrade. 
 
We still have not even started that project as far as an 
upgrade.  The project is completely built.  The modules are on the 
ground.  So we’re almost at three years now, where the utility has not even 
started the project, and we’ve actually paid $1 million.   
 
You know, one of the things that was mentioned is the idea of 
roughly $10 million dollars is a number that solar developers or people would 
pay towards these costs.  I can tell you, our company in the State of New 
Jersey has paid over $5 million in upgrades, and we have not seen any relief 
whatsoever.  And I’m sure the other gentlemen in this area have spent even 
more.   
 
So I think the one thing to understand is, solar energy, for some 
of these commercial businesses, is no longer an option.  They are being 
mandated by their publicly traded company to do solar.  And even though 
the solar companies are going to leave this area because they can’t do business 
here--  Because of the issue of being renewable is very important now for 
financial reasons and customers, we’re going to see manufacturers and 
 
 
 
84 
organizations leave this area because they can do solar somewhere else, and 
they can do what they need to do to be renewable. 
 
Thank you for your time.  
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Questions for the witness? (no response) 
 
If not, this concludes this meeting of the most interesting 
Committee in the Legislature. 
 
 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
