 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
 
“The Committee will meet to hear testimony from invited speakers on steps that the State 
can take to modernize the electrical grid and prepare for the interconnection 
 of more renewable energy resources” 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 6 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
June 8, 2023 
10:00 a.m. 
 
 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice Chair 
Senator Troy Singleton 
Senator Edward R. Durr, Jr. 
Senator Jean Stanfield 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joseph Gurrentz, Ph.D. 
Eric Hansen 
 
 
 
Matthew Peterson 
 
 
 
Jonathan Vitale 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
Senate Majority  
 
 
 
Senate Republican 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aides 
 
 
 
Committee Aide 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
Abraham Silverman 
Managing Director 
Non Technical Barriers to the Clean Energy Transition 
Center on Global Energy Policy 
Columbia University 
2 
 
Chance Lykins 
Director of Public Affairs 
New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPUA) 
17 
 
Asim Z. Haque  
Vice President 
State Policy and Member Services  
PJM Interconnection  
27 
 
Christina Farrell 
Vice President 
New Jersey Utilities Association (NJUA) 
37 
 
Michael Schmid 
Vice President of Asset Management and Planning 
Public Service Electric & Gas Co. (PSE&G) 
38 
 
Michael Kayes 
Managing Director 
Transmission, Substation Construction, and Maintenance 
Public Service Electric & Gas Co. (PSE&G) 
42 
 
Doug Mokoid 
Region President 
Atlantic City Electric 
47 
 
James Fakult 
President 
Jersey Central Power & Light (JCP&L) 
54 
 
Phil Echevarria 
Director of Government Relations 
New Jersey Chapter 
The Nature Conservancy 
60 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Bill Kibler, J.D. 
Director of Policy and Science 
Raritan 
Headwaters 
62
 
 
Robert J. Karabinchak 
New Jersey Assemblyman 
District 18 
65 
 
Matthew Halpin 
Representing 
New Jersey Society of Municipal Engineers 
66 
 
Kevin Monaco 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Asphalt Pavement Association (NJAPA) 
66 
 
Tasi Hogan 
Director of Advocacy 
Beautycounter 
72 
 
Gretchen Salter 
Strategic Advisor 
Safer States 
75 
 
Katie Pelch, Ph.D. 
Scientist 
National Resources Defense Council (NRDC) 
80 
 
Adam Nordell 
Campaign Manager 
Defend Our Health 
83 
 
Avonna Starck 
State Director  
Clean Water Action Minnesota 
86 
 
Benedetto A. Graziano 
Policy Director 
Chemistry Council of New Jersey 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Nicholas Georges 
Senior Vice President 
Scientific and International Affairs 
Household and Commercial Products Association (HCPA) 
91 
 
Mary Ellen Peppard 
Vice President 
New Jersey Food Council 
94 
 
Michael Egenton 
Executive Vice President 
Government Relations 
New Jersey Chamber of Commerce 
98 
 
Hilary Chebra 
Manager, Government Affairs 
Chamber of Commerce Southern New Jersey 
99 
 
Raymond Cantor, Esq. 
Vice President 
Government Affairs 
New Jersey Business and Industry Association 
100 
 
Atashi Bell, Ph.D. 
Senior Director, Global Government Relations 
Honeywell 
103 
 
Andrew Bemus 
Representing 
Sustainable PFAS Action Network (SPAN) 
106 
 
Anjuli Ramos 
Director, New Jersey Chapter 
Sierra Club 
109 
 
Doug O’Malley 
State Director 
Environment New Jersey 
112 
 
Eric Benson 
New Jersey Campaign Director 
Clean Water Action 
114 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Ryan Berger 
Assistant Executive Director 
New Jersey Society  
for Economic, Environmental Development (SEED) 
116 
 
Rebecca Hilbert 
Senior Policy Manager 
New Jersey League of Conservation Voters 
116 
 
Roxy Kozyckyj 
Director of State Affairs 
Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) 
118 
 
Amanda Hagan 
Director, State Government Affairs 
Animal Health Institute 
120 
 
Shawn Swearingen 
Director, Chemical Products and Technology 
American Chemistry Council 
121 
 
Ed Waters 
Senior Director, Government Affairs 
American Chemistry Council 
123 
 
Dennis Hart 
Representing 
New Jersey Paint 
Council 
127
 
 
Riaz Zaman, J.D. 
Senior Council 
American Coatings Association (ACA) 
130 
 
Sharonda Allen 
Environmental Justice Co-Chair 
Tri-County 
Sustainability 
133
 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Abraham Silverman 
1x 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Chance Lykins 
7x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Asim Z. Haque  
11x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
James Fakult 
20x 
 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Phil Echevarria 
24x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Kevin Monaco 
28x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Mary Ellen Peppard 
32x 
 
Testimony and additional materials 
submitted by 
Atashi Bell, Ph.D. 
34x 
 
Testimony and additional materials 
submitted by 
Roxy Kozyckyj 
42x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Shawn Swearingen 
52x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
 
 
Riaz Zaman, JD 
54x 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Jason Bailey 
President 
American Braiding and Manufacturing 
56x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Jan Buberl 
Vice President, Americas 
Huntsman Corporation 
58x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
David Dickerson 
Representing 
National Marine Manufacturers Association (NMMA) 
60x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Stephen Lamar 
President and CEO 
American Apparel & Footwear Association 
62x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Jen Lee 
Chief Impact Officer 
Beautycounter 
65x 
 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Brian O. Lipman, Esq. 
Director 
New Jersey Division of Rate Counsel 
66x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Dan Moyer 
 
 
Senior Manager 
Environmental Law and Policy  
Consumer Technology Association 
68x 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Scott P. Schloegel  
Senior Vice President, Government Relations 
Motorcycle Industry Council 
70x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Wayne Weikel 
Vice President of State Affairs 
Alliance for Automotive Innovation 
72x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Jay West 
Executive Director 
Performance Fluoropolymer Partnership 
75x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Anthony Willingham  
Governmental Affairs and Public Policy Lead - State 
Electrify America 
80x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Megan Provost 
President 
RISE, and 
Chris Novak 
President and CEO 
CropLife 
America 
86x
 
 
National PFAS Testing Strategy: 
Identification of Candidate Per- and Poly- 
Fluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) for Testing 
submitted by 
 
 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
89x 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Various Organizations 
105x 
 
mej: 1-134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  Good morning, everyone, 
welcome to what is clearly proving once again to be the most interesting 
committee in the Legislature.  
 
 
A little modification to the plan for today.  We’re going to take 
3914 off the agenda.  It appears it’s not ready for prime time yet, so, if you’re 
here for that and only that, you are now released. 
 
 
The plan for today is as follows:  We are going to have a number 
of speakers on where we stand on our grid and what we need to do to have 
any chance of survival--  And, by the way, today is -- the last couple of days  
-- just a little taste of global warming.  Just the tiniest taste.  More is coming. 
 
 
So, we’re going to have our grid modernization, that’s part of our 
continuing thematic of trying to figure out how to stop the end of the world.  
This is all part of that global climate change bigger picture, and I think the 
grid is going to be a big part of it.  Then we’re going to do the two bills, 
Senator 
Zwicker 
and 
Senator 
Diegnan’s 
bill, 
and 
Assemblyman 
Karabinchak’s bill.  And, then, we’re going to have a discussion-only on the 
PFAS -- Senator Greenstein’s PFAS bill -- especially after the hundreds of 
millions of dollars that were just settled on the courthouse steps with this 
Stewart, Florida, case.  So, really, really interesting stuff.  
 
 
So, that being said, we have a number of speakers to talk about 
the grid -- actually, we have panels.  So, our first panel--  Oh, and by the way, 
should we take our roll?  What a concept. 
 
 
Let’s take a roll call on who is present. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Durr. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Here. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Stanfield. 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  Here. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Singleton is going to be filling in, but 
he’s not here yet. 
 
 
Senator Greenstein. 
 
 
SENATOR LINDA R. GREENSTEIN (Co-Chair):  Here. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  And, Chairman Smith. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, I am also present. 
 
 
So, we have a couple panels coming up.  First panel will be Abe 
Silverman, Director of Non Technical Barriers Program, Center on Global 
Energy Policy, Columbia University, and who also has the distinction of 
having been a very significant part of the policymaking at the New Jersey 
Board of Public Utilities. 
 
 
So, Abe, are you here? 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  (indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  What’s that?  You are here?  Come on up. 
 
 
And, let me put it right to you:  Our grid, in New Jersey, when 
are we ever going to get to 100% renewable?  I hope the answer is 2035, but 
the grid, I think, is our biggest problem -- but maybe not. 
 
 
So, take it away. 
A B R A H A M   S I L V E R M A N:  All right, great, thank you. 
 
 
Good morning, Mr. Chairman, and members of the Committee.  
My name is Abraham Silverman.  I lead the Non Technical Barriers to the 
Clean Energy Transition Program at Columbia University, Center on Global 
Energy Policy. 
 
 
I often get asked, “What is a non-technical barrier?”  And, it’s 
things like interconnection, and grid modernization, and how do we make all 
 
 
 
3 
these various things that we need to do to meet our clean energy targets a 
reality in a timeframe that meets the challenge of climate change. 
 
 
Previously, I had the great honor of serving as General Council 
and Executive Policy Council at the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities, 
working with President Fiordaliso and his wonderful team there.  However, 
my comments today represent my own views. 
 
 
So, I am going to talk this morning about how we can affordably 
modernize New Jersey’s electric grid -- and, in particular, efficiently connect 
new resources to the grid.  My testimony this morning is going to cover three 
main topics:  First is everything you wanted to know but were afraid to ask 
about what is interconnection; what does it mean to connect a generator to 
the grid, how does that process work; the second is why it matters; and, the 
third is what can we do about it to make it better, more efficient, and cheaper. 
 
 
So, 
interconnection, 
just 
generally, 
is 
the 
process 
of 
interconnecting a new electric generator to the grid.  This is true whether 
you’re talking about a nuclear plant or a rooftop solar plant, or a battery, or 
anything else.  If you take nothing else from today’s hearing, remember 
interconnection is about ensuring that you can plug in your generator to the 
grid in a way that is safe and reliable. 
 
 
The interconnection process can either be a very short, 
straightforward process with something like a one-page application for your 
typical rooftop solar system, or it could be a process that takes months and 
months and sometimes even years of study involving detailed power flow 
analyses; looking at the conditions on the grid in various weather conditions; 
and making sure that the grid can handle the output from the generating unit.  
Generally, the complexity of the interconnection process depends on three 
 
 
 
4 
different things:  One is the size and location of the new generating facility -
- Is it a small facility?  Is it a big facility? --  the size of the utility line that 
the generator is connecting to. 
 
 
Typically, if you are connecting a very large generator to a small 
distribution line, that’s not going to work, and vice versa.  So, there’s a lot of 
locational aspects to the interconnection process.  And, then, you study those 
parameters under a variety of different load conditions -- how, whether it’s a 
hot day or a cold day -- and you look over the course of a year and say, “Is 
there a way in which this generator could operate that would be inconsistent 
with the safe and reliable operation of the grid?”  So, once you get your 
authority to interconnect, you are then free to move about the cabin and sell 
power to the grid; take power from the grid; and do all those things. 
 
 
So, the study--  The interconnection process is actually set forth 
in rules and in tariffs.  And, the utilities are required to conduct the studies 
on a non-discriminatory basis, usually first in time sort of thing.  So, you 
study the first generator in line, and then you move the line and study 
subsequent generators, and look at the aggregate impacts to the grid. 
 
 
Now, let me turn to two other pieces of the interconnection 
puzzle that I think people sometimes find confusing.  One, is there is a very 
important jurisdictional divide that really goes to the heart of this 
Committee’s work on interconnection.  So, interconnection to the 
distribution system -- those are lower voltage lines that power our homes and 
businesses -- are subject to State jurisdiction, and are established by rules by 
the Board of Public Utilities, and then implemented by our public utility -- 
our state public utilities. 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
Interconnection to the transmission system -- those are the high-
voltage power lines -- are actually under Federal jurisdiction, and the studies 
are conducted by PJM Interconnection, who I know you’re going to hear from 
earlier today, in concert with the transmission-owning utility.  So, that’s a 
joint interconnection process for them. 
 
 
The second thing I want to make clear is that interconnection 
actually covers -- is a term that means two different things.  There’s the 
generator interconnection process we’re talking about right now, which is 
connecting to new supply resources, but there’s also load interconnections.  
And, I sometimes think people get confused when they hear these two terms 
bandied about, and it’s very important to distinguish which one you’re 
talking about.  So, if you have a load interconnection, that’s going to cover a 
new consumption resource hooking up to the grid.  That could be anything 
from a house to a large data center that’s using a ton of electricity; or to a 
battery storage resource that is acting both as a load and as a generating 
facility. 
 
 
While these are all separate processes, at the end of the day, there 
is only one grid, and cost-effective grid-modernization strategies need to look 
at building out the grid both to meet your supply-and-demand objectives, 
including electrification of the transportation and building sectors, if that’s 
the way the State continues to go, in terms of its policy.  I think we all know 
intuitively, the last thing on Earth you want is for the utility to dig up the 
street one day to connect a generator, and then come back the next day to 
connect a new large consumer of electricity. 
 
 
So, let me talk--  Let me now move to some of the challenges and 
how I think we can do interconnection better in the state.  So, let me start 
 
 
 
6 
with the perspective on sort of the national scale first, which is, we have 
enough power generation seeking to interconnect in this country to replace 
every generator in the country and then some.  So, we have 2,000 gigawatts 
of generation -- 90% of it clean -- that is currently stuck in an interconnection 
queue somewhere in the country.  Now, you can’t quite say that that’s going 
to replace everything that exists currently -- it doesn’t work that way, it’s a 
much more complicated question, but this is really a good-news-bad-news 
scenario in the sense that the bad news is that we’re seeing extensive delays 
caused by all this new generation coming onto the grid; but, I don’t want to 
lose sight of the good news either, which is that we have incredible demand 
for clean energy in this country.  Corporate demand, State clean energy 
programs, customers wanting to put solar on their roof -- all of these are 
contributing to what has become a rather significant backlog of 
interconnection requests. 
 
 
You know, it used to be you could get a project through the 
interconnection queue in something around two years, if you were dealing at 
the PJM level --  much shorter if you were at the State level.  However, we 
are seeing a significant degradation in those timelines over the past couple 
years, where it’s now taking three, four, or even five years to get a project 
through the interconnection process.  And, that’s before you even start 
building out the upgrades. 
 
 
So, let’s talk about how we can solve these challenges.  Like any 
sort of business challenge, it’s about the money and it’s about planning.  And, 
so, the two things that really--  We spend a lot of time thinking about -- 
especially in my new role -- looking at these non-technical barriers, is how 
can we plan the grid in advance and say, “We know that, say, in the A service 
 
 
 
7 
territory where there’s good land, there’s a lot of economic development, a 
lot of desire to put solar there, yet the utility grid isn’t ready for either the 
demand or the supply side.”  And, we need to make really substantial 
upgrades to the system.  So, on the planning side, what you want to do is you 
want to think about where you expect the resources to be in the next five 
years, and then start planning out the grid to meet those demands.   
 
 
Developers I talked to are very concerned about this process.  In 
fact, I think it has moved up on the list to be one of the primary 
considerations for new generation resources.  It’s about the cost, it’s about 
the timeline, and it’s about the uncertainty in the cost and the timeline.  If 
you can come in and know that your cost is going to be $1,000, you can plan 
that, you can look at your project economics, and you can say, “Yep, this 
project works or it doesn’t.”  However, the current system is you don’t get 
that $1,000 estimate until fairly far down the line when you’ve had to invest 
a lot of money in procuring land and planning your generation facility. 
 
 
The concerns over timeline apply to both how long it takes to 
complete the studies, as well as how long it takes the utilities to procure and 
install necessary equipment.  And, we have seen some real problems with 
supply chain, both on the solar side and the utility side, in procuring things 
like transformers, which, again, is adding to the uncertainty and delay of the 
interconnection process. 
 
 
So, one of the most significant steps we can take, as I mentioned, 
to accelerate the interconnection process, is to proactively build out the grid.  
That is the planning side, right -- I think anybody who is familiar with 
business does this all the time:  You look at the addressable market; you look 
at where your customers are; you look at what they’re going to want from 
 
 
 
8 
you in the next couple years; and you set up your business to meet that 
demand.  That, historically -- as I’m sure this will come as a shock to everyone 
-- is not the way that utilities typically operate.  Instead, they wait for you to 
come to them, and say, “I want to hook up a given generator to the grid,” and 
then they start the whole study process.  And, we just simply do not have the 
grid that’s ready to meet those demands.  And, the consequence is a real 
slowdown of our clean energy targets and, frankly, a loss of green jobs in the 
state. 
 
 
So, the other side of the equation is the money side.  One of the 
major issues around interconnection is who pays for the upgrades to the 
electric grid.  Historically, when we were in a fossil fuel-dominated world, the 
resource was assigned -- the new generation resource -- was assigned 100% of 
the costs of the interconnection.  We call this “participant funding.”  So, the 
person causing -- the cost causer -- pays to upgrade the grid.  The benefit of 
the participant-funding model is that the cost causer pays, and ratepayers are 
largely insulated from the financial impacts of that generator operating on 
the grid to get the benefit of new power, but they don’t end up paying for the 
grid upgrades. 
 
 
That model has some real severe drawbacks, however.  First, the 
participant-funding model assumes the individual generators will be the 
primary means of funding utility system expansion.  And, as we look into the 
future and we see the need for significantly more utility expansion than we 
have in the past -- if you remember, the New Jersey Energy Master Plan from 
2019 talked about three times as much electricity flowing over the same 
system by 2050 -- so we need to substantially upgrade the system, and it’s 
 
 
 
9 
not clear that we’ll get there if we rely exclusively on a participant-funding 
kind of model. 
 
 
Second, the costs of interconnection are not knowable in 
advance, as I mentioned, and so the participant funding methodology 
increases the risk.  And, remember, that development spend; that developer 
coming in and making an investment early on in the process -- that’s 
expensive capital.  That’s hard-to-find capital, and we make it very risky 
because of the long delays in the interconnection process.  
 
 
Third, under the participant funding model, the utility is 
required to do detailed studies and really allocate, to the penny, all the 
various costs associated with interconnection.  So, a revised cost-allocation 
methodology could lessen the complexity and minimize the number of re-
studies. 
 
 
So, let me just conclude by suggesting a couple things the 
Committee may want to look at.  And, I know the Board of Public Utilities 
is already actually looking at several of these ideas, but let me sort of present 
them in the most radical to the least radical. 
 
 
One option would be to simply socialize the cost of building out 
the system to meet anticipated clean energy demand over the next decade 
with -- and I think this is important -- stringent oversight by the Board over 
utilities to make sure they are not overspending, and that generators are not 
locating in places where the costs are going to be so excessive to the benefits 
to the grid.  So, that’s one option:  Simply take those costs, build out the 
grid, and assign it to ratepayers as a rolled-in cost. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any idea of the cost? 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  You know, we see lots of different estimates 
on this, sir, and it’s very difficult to know for sure.  Grid-modernization 
proceedings that the Board has is looking at this, but you really need to do it 
in a smart way, because one of the real questions, any time you’re doing a 
grid-modernization proceeding, is how does it interact with other initiatives 
of the State? 
 
 
For example -- let me give you a really clear example -- if you are 
successful on your deployment of energy efficiency, and you are reducing the 
total amount of electricity being consumed on the grid, that decreases the 
whole cost of the interconnection program.  So, there’s a real feedback loop 
there. 
 
 
Another example is on something like medium and heavy-duty 
vehicle charging.  If you have chargers coming in and a lot of additional load 
coming out on the hottest day of the year, where you’re having to build out 
the grid to meet that demand, that imposes a lot of costs.  However, if you 
do engage in a managed-charging program where you’re having the charging 
take place in off-peak periods, that can actually lower total rates even though 
the amount of electricity being consumed is higher. 
 
 
So, you know, we see all sorts of estimates.  I think California 
recently came out with some very inflated numbers, talking about a lot of 
money.  However, I think the demand side piece of this all has to be part of 
the same discussion.  But, you’re definitely talking in the 10s to 100s of 
millions of dollars -- I mean, it’s not a cheap process -- if not more. 
 
 
So, that’s one option, simply to socialize those costs.  The second 
option is to deal with the unpredictability and variability of the cost.  So, you 
could, say, apply a fixed fee on a per-megawatt-of-installed-capacity basis -- I, 
 
 
 
11 
as a developer, have a 10-megawatt project.  The fee is $10,000 per megawatt; 
I pay $100,000 no matter what the studies come back with.  That is a way of 
bringing some additional predictability to the interconnection process so that 
I, as a developer, know that my costs are manageable.  And, you can do that 
either on a revenue neutral basis where you simply total the -- total cost of 
the upgrades divided by the number of generators, and every generator pays 
that amount.  Or, you could have some level of cost socialization in there.  
And, I think that’s a very common-sense way of moving towards a more 
reasonable allocation of these costs and bringing, again, that predictability 
that developers need to be able to invest in our State. 
 
 
The third option -- I think this is another one that is absolutely, 
probably, best practices across the country -- is to direct utilities to establish 
a list of the limiting elements on their system.  So, that’s the most congested 
portion of their electric grid, and then to have them proactively upgrade those 
elements.  Because one of the things we often see is you have a generator 
coming in, they have a limited amount of upgrades right at their point of 
interconnection, where they connect to the grid, and that makes sense, and 
those are manageable.  But, then upstream, perhaps two or three or four 
transmission lines or distribution lines away, you run into a really major 
upgrade that’s going to cost, say, $20 million.  No individual generator can 
afford that, and yet we see a lot of these same constraints popping up over 
and over again as reasons why projects are delayed or reasons why projects 
fail.  So, you can have the utility address some of those sort of big constraints 
upfront.  And, that’s a very successful way, and we’ve seen that work in a 
variety of different places -- most famously in Texas, where they built out 
their entire system, built out their entire transmission system to interconnect 
 
 
 
12 
renewables in West Texas with the major load centers in the east.  And, that 
turned out to be an incredibly cost-effective and smart investment for Texas. 
 
 
So, I very much appreciate the opportunity to testify before you 
today, and I’m happy to take any additional questions. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Are you going to give us a copy of your 
testimony? 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  Yes, I sent it in, absolutely. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, you’re no longer working for the Board 
of Public Utilities, so you can tell us the truth-- 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  (laughter) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --in the thematic of conspiracy theories. 
 
 
The last suggestion of -- I think it was a mix and match of some 
socialization, some private.  Isn’t the problem here that we have to make the 
decision?  I mean, you have everybody sitting in their chair looking at each 
other saying, “Who is going to make the decision?”  
 
 
So, if you were the king, is that the method you would select? 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  Yes, I would socialize the cost, and I’ll tell 
you why. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But still have private party -- some 
participation? 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  I would have very stringent controls, 
because what you don’t want is to remove the economic and setup for the 
private party to locate at a smart place on the grid. 
 
 
They may save themselves 10 bucks, but if it causes $100 million 
of transmission upgrades, that’s not a good investment for consumers.  So, 
 
 
 
13 
we need to have very stringent limits and say, “We will pay up to a certain 
amount.” 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, who is the entity that needs to put 
together their master plan for the grid and then enforce it?  BPU? 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  If the BPU, yes, and requiring the utilities 
to come in and make plans that talk about individual grid modernization. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Are they doing that now?  Looking at the 
whole grid and deciding where? 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  Yes, they are, in varying degrees.  So, it’s a 
long process, and I know no one ever likes to hear that answer, but it’s -- you 
really need to think about this in terms of steps.  So, the first step is we can 
deal with these cost-allocation issues because it doesn’t fundamentally change 
what the utility is doing. 
 
 
And, I have to say, particularly in a world where most new 
generation in New Jersey is getting a renewable energy incentive, we are 
already paying on a socialized basis for these upgrades.  We’re simply paying 
for it through ORECS and SRECS and then it’s getting transferred over to 
the utility participant-funding model.  But, those costs are absolutely showing 
up on our bill. 
 
 
So, one of the things we do is we can say, “OK, utility, you plan 
the system, you know where these resources are coming in, you proactively 
do that, and then you collect the costs on a socialized basis.  We will see 
enormous economies of scale, and the whole process will be cheaper in the 
end.”  
 
 
And, so, as we think about the cost-allocation piece, that can go 
first.  This is why I think it’s really important that the Board and this 
 
 
 
14 
Committee fix the generator interconnection piece first, so we know what 
we’re working with. And, then, as we come in and have more intensive grid-
modernization plans -- which are very complicated to do, and are going to 
take additional time -- you could have that process going on in parallel with 
fixing the cost allocation.  Because one of the major problems we see -- and 
I’ve seen this in other states -- is where you give the utilities carte blanche to 
come in with a grid-modernization plan -- and, I’m sure they will enjoy 
responding to this comment earlier -- I think there’s a perception that the 
answer is always poles and wires, and that’s not necessarily what we need 
more of.  We definitely need some more poles and wires, but that can’t be 
the entirety of the grid-modernization approach. 
 
 
And, so, I think what the Board is really doing is very deliberately 
setting up a program for that type of grid modernization in the future, and 
then thinking about, in fact, there’s a nine-point plan, which is part of the 
Board’s grid-modernization proposal where they talk about the first four steps 
are the ones we’re going to implement first, and that includes 
interconnection, and then there’s another suite of ideas that would get 
addressed further into the future.  And, I think it’s just a matter of 
accelerating that process as much as we possibly can, and fixing things along 
the way. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, does that require legislation? 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  I think there are a couple places where 
legislation could be helpful.  I think the Board has the authority to do a lot 
of this cost-allocation reform.  However, getting the legislature to affirm that 
is never bad. 
 
 
 
15 
 
 
I also think that there are various places where distribution grid 
upgrades -- both because of new consumption of energy or new production 
of energy -- are going to get cause to meet these State public policies, and it 
makes some sense to give the Board additional authority there.  A classic 
example is, what did we do about medium- and heavy-duty electric vehicle -- 
vehicle electrification?  Those are going to be large consumers of electricity.  
I think they have definite public health benefits; I think they have economic 
benefits to the State.  But the cost of building that infrastructure could be 
substantial.  So, that’s another example of a place where having the Board 
have explicit authority to make smart investments.  Using ratepayer money 
could be very, very helpful. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Do you have any opinion on whether the 
State would be well-advised to use some of its bulging surplus at this 
particular moment for the investment in the grid, therefore not requiring that 
socialization -- at least for that portion? 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  Absolutely.  I mean, you know, any money 
is good money, and I think if you had the utilities come in and each of them 
tell us what are the top 10 pieces of equipment that you have on your grid 
that are outdated, about to fail, or limiting the clean energy transition, and 
we’re going to give you a one-time infusion of money, I think that could be 
very exciting. 
 
 
Now, there are some implementation details because utilities, of 
course, are -- they make money based on their rate base.  And, so, really 
probably what you would be doing is, if you had additional money, do 
something like the Societal Benefits Fund, money that’s being diverted, give 
that back to the Board and have the Board issue it as an offset to bills such 
 
 
 
16 
that it’s revenue-neutral for consumers, but still respects the utility business 
model. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, that’s-- 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  A convoluted answer, but I think it’s an 
important aspect of this. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I’d appreciate if you put your idea on what 
the best thing we can do to get our grid modernized -- send it to us.  Especially 
the stuff that you think needs to be in the legislation. 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  I’d be delighted to do that. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK. 
 
 
Thank you, Abe. 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I wish you good luck in your new role. 
 
 
Any questions for Abe?  (no response) 
 
 
If not, then our next panel is Bob Brabston--  Oh, I’m sorry, was 
there a question? 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  I can’t take when it says the socialization, 
putting that on taxpayers.  I think if we have the money to upgrade our grid 
system, we should look to that before we look to the taxpayer. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t know that you’re not absolutely 
correct. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  And-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  But, we’re going to find out.  That’s why 
we’re having these hearings-- 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  --it’s clear statistical proof that nuclear is the 
way we need to be going. 
 
 
 
17 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Another good discussion. 
 
 
I appreciate the comments. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  It’s a proven fact. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Panel Number 2:  Bob Brabston, Executive 
Director of the Board of Public Utilities; Chance Lykins, Director of 
Government Affairs, the Board of Public Utilities. 
 
 
Now, as you’re walking up, I want you to calm your anger at Abe, 
who used to be a member of the team but is now saying, “We need to change 
the way we think about interconnections.”  So, don’t pick on Abe, all right? 
 
 
Who would like to go first? 
C H A N C E   L Y K I N S:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
I’ll start us off, and I’ll ask the Committee to bear with me.  I 
know-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No reading. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  This is a very technical issue, and so I am going 
to lean on my reading a little more than I normally do, and so I’ll ask you to 
bear with me on that. 
 
 
But thank you, Chairman, for giving us the opportunity to be 
here.  Thank you members of the Committee. 
 
 
My name is Chance Lykins, as you said, Director of Government 
Affairs for the Board.  And, with me is Bob Brabston, our Executive Director. 
 
 
As Abe always likes to say, “The best time to invest in your 
infrastructure is 10 years ago.”  That’s as true with utilities as it is with roads, 
bridges; these are tough choices that have to be made because they do cost a 
lot of money.  This administration, under Governor Murphy’s leadership, is 
 
 
 
18 
making those choices, and the Board is leading the way through our grid-
modernization proceeding. 
 
 
We brought on a consultant in 2021 who has developed a report.  
That report has led to nine -- I should say, I told you I should be reading. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You’re doing good. 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  Nine recommendations that we are slowly -- as 
quickly as possible, I should say -- in the process of implementing. 
 
 
Strategically modernizing the electric grid is necessary in order 
to meet the State’s clean energy goals and to enhance reliability.  Effectively 
bridging a significant amount of clean, new energy resources online requires 
installations to have access to the grid.  The New Jersey power grid was 
designed to meet the needs of the past -- we now have to design the grid to 
meet the needs of our future. 
 
 
While the electricity load in the long-term is expected to grow as 
decarbonization and electrification efforts ramp up, the load growth has 
flattened currently, and technology enabling remaining loads to be able to 
coordinate with increasingly local generation -- such that the distribution grid 
-- must adapt to maintain its balance and evolve a much higher level of 
flexibility.  Further, the grid itself is impacted by an increasing frequency of 
severe weather events, and even what we saw yesterday with the smoke; we 
are constantly dealing with new threats, and a lot of that places additional 
stress on the grid.  And, so, these changes are absolutely necessary not just to 
meet our clean energy needs, but to ensure a reliability for the future. 
 
 
So, as I said, we’ve brought on Guidehouse, Inc., a consultant, in 
2021 to help develop a report and to help us figure out how best to reform 
how we handle grid upgrades and how we make this process smoother. 
 
 
 
19 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Have they finished? You have the nine 
recommendations. 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  So, we are still -- they are still -- we extended their 
contract, we are still working with Guidehouse, but they did finish the initial 
report.  That went out for public comment, as with everything we do, we use 
extensive stakeholder feedback to help guide us in developing our policies.  
And, so, the initial report came back, it had the nine recommendations in it, 
and I’m going to read through those and I’ll read them quickly, understanding 
time. 
 
 
So, those are broken into four near-term recommendations and 
five kind of longer-term recommendations that are going to take a lot more 
effort and thinking to puzzle through. 
 
 
So, the near-term recommendations included to ensure that we 
are aligned with the latest grid interconnection standards, just making sure 
we are guarding against obsolescence in the future; streamlining and 
automating the interconnection application process to the greatest extent 
possible; including an interconnection dispute-resolution process; and 
providing consistency across the state’s electric distribution companies, 
providing predictability and efficiency; enhancing hosting capacity 
methodology; hosting capacity and mapping data; minimum update intervals; 
and presentation consistency.  This would include the electric distribution 
companies providing a uniform cost data guide for system upgrades -- again, 
transparency and predictability.  And, the fourth in the near-term was 
designing and implementing an EDC pre-application process in accordance 
with BPU requirements, which will provide the opportunity to expedite 
renewables and storage interconnection. 
 
 
 
20 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Have we made any progress on these four 
recommendations? 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  Yes.  So, the Board -- in the Board order where 
they accepted this report, they asked staff to begin immediately 
implementing these first four and drafting rules to implement these first four.  
And, so, those are, again, the near-term goals that we think we can implement 
pretty quickly.  We’re still ensuring that we get as much feedback as we can 
from stakeholders.  Obviously, the utilities are a major partner in this, we 
can’t do this without them, and so we’re working hand-in-hand with them as 
well as to various other stakeholders who have a role in this, whether that’s 
companies providing different types of clean energy, or just different groups 
that benefit from that. 
 
 
So, our stakeholder process is robust and thorough.  We have a 
lot of meetings; we take that feedback very seriously; and we use that to guide 
us through. 
 
 
Now, the five long-term recommendations:  First is that we 
develop a steering committee and convene working groups and taskforces to 
further reform the interconnection and grid-mod process.  These working 
groups should recommend tools and an approach for a regulatory sandbox to 
test or -- to test for new technologies.  And, what I mean by that is similar to 
a pilot program, but we’re going to design a way to quickly test and 
implement new technologies and new ideas to see if they work or if they 
don’t.  We’re going to put some funding out there, let the private industry or 
the utilities come to us with ideas; have a way to quickly test those and see if 
they’re working and if worth moving forward with.  And, if not, then moving 
 
 
 
21 
onto the next idea.  But we want to streamline that process so that we can do 
this quickly and react to changes in the market. 
 
 
Next, again, informed by our stakeholder process and initiated 
by the Board, we’re asking that EDC should implement a streamlined, flexible 
queue process across the EDCs, which would include a mechanism to 
prioritize a “first ready, first (indiscernible)” approach.  And, of course, when 
I say EDCs I’m talking about the electric distribution companies.  We love 
our acronyms at the Board, so, apologize for that. 
 
 
Third, the BPU should establish a steering committee and 
working groups to research and recommend additional cost-recovery options 
beyond the legacy cost-causer approach, under which the resource connecting 
to the grid is responsible for the cost of the needed system upgrades.  And, 
Abe referred to this.  You know, our legacy model has been if you want the 
upgrade, you pay for it.  That worked in the past; that’s not going to work 
for us to meet our needs for the future.  And, so, we’re looking at different 
ways to pay for this, frankly, and trying to figure out-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, you heard his suggestion: Take the 
money from societal benefits, or, and I’ll throw out the idea, take some money 
from our surplus. Does the Board have any idea how much money we’re 
talking about? 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  No, that’s one of the things we’re working 
through, and that’s why -- as he said, and I’ll agree with Abe -- this is not 
something we can do overnight, and that’s why we’ve-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I don’t know how many nights we have left. 
 
 
 
22 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  Understood, and agree.  And, the staff at the BPU 
are all -- the folks in the Division of Clean Energy work tirelessly because they 
agree with you 100%. 
 
 
And, regardless of that, we still have to ensure that we do this in 
the way that makes the most sense, because making mistakes that have to be 
fixed later down the road can cost us more time.  And, so, ensuring we do this 
in a cost-efficient way, but also in a way that allows us to maximize private 
investment so that it doesn’t all go onto the ratepayer.  It’s going to take some 
time, and it takes working through.  And, that’s why we’ve developed these 
working groups to figure these things out. 
 
 
The eighth recommendation was to direct the EDCs to develop 
integrated distribution plans, per the energy master plan, and to provide -- 
for us to provide direction to the EDCs regarding information to be included 
as minimum filing requirements in their IDPs.  And, basically, we know 
historically what their integrated distribution plans look like, but we’re asking 
them to think outside of the box, to look at the problems we face, and they 
know as well as anybody where we need to get to.  And, so, we have to come 
up with new plans on how we get there.  And, Abe referred to the poles and 
wires, and that’s, historically, how we’ve invested in our system.  And, some 
of that is going to still be required, but we have to look at other ways of 
investing in a system; other ways of allowing new technologies to come in and 
benefit the people of New Jersey. 
 
 
And, then, finally, the Board would develop rules for separate 
metering of non-renewable fuel sources that does not allow combined net 
metering.  This will allow renewable generation owners to receive full credit 
 
 
 
23 
without penalty, for co-location, non-renewable sources, and without 
sacrificing resource sufficiency.  
 
 
So, the Board accepted the report, they directed staff to begin 
implementing those first four, and then the final five, we are putting those 
work groups together, we are recruiting the best and brightest to fill out those 
work groups and to be a part of this.  We are imploring the people in this 
room -- or some of those people -- to get involved and help us figure out these 
problems.  These are huge problems that have to be overcome, and it is going 
to require the best and brightest that we have to figure out how to resolve 
them.  And, so, these working groups are going to be very fundamental to 
that. 
 
 
Sorry, I’m trying not to read, Chairman. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH: You’re doing real good. 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  So, the grid-mod program aims to introduce 
through these collective role changes in a more cost-effective and balanced 
method for rapidly expanding our distribution grid and DER-hosting capacity 
through several innovative and coordinated efforts, requiring the EDCs to 
develop and file highly proactive and adaptive integrated plans, as we 
discussed, that will enable a more rational and streamlined attachment, fuller 
utilization, and fair compensation of privately invested DER resources -- 
distributed energy resources -- recognizing and enabling the potential for 
aggregated distributed energy resources under the coming FERC 2222 order, 
driven PJM -- which is driving PJM tariff by standardizing these under-grid 
flexibility services, architecture, and future tariff. 
 
 
Realizing that distribution grid upgrades might be more broadly 
implemented through more rigorous cost estimation, allocation, and 
 
 
 
24 
recovery, and better recognition of ratepayer benefits that may help justify 
socialization of some of the cost elements.  As Abe said, we need to have a 
hybrid method on how we pay for all this. 
 
 
And, then, align and better integrating grid impact studies to 
include both load and generation together, and allowing export limiting and 
other smart grid-control mechanisms to factor into approvals. 
 
 
So, with that, I will thank you for allowing us to take part here 
today.  I will say happy belated birthday to Vice Chair Greenstein, and we 
welcome any questions the Committee has. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s not a question, it’s a directive. 
 
 
We need it yesterday.  Abe’s comment about the best investment 
was 10 years ago -- walk outside the building.  We’re in trouble, and it’s 
getting worse every second. 
 
 
So, I don’t know whether you need to hire more staff, or maybe 
we need some of the smartest energy companies in the state to volunteer staff, 
but we can’t wait much longer.  So -- not that I want to put the 800-pound 
gorilla just on the BPU’s back, we’re all at fault -- but we’ve got to get this 
stuff moving. 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  No, and that’s a good point; this is an all-
government approach that we have to take, and we are working with the other 
agencies as well as the private sector and the regulated sector to find these 
approaches. 
 
 
We’re not waiting on anyone.  But, again, these are long-term 
complex problems-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No question-- 
 
 
 
25 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  --and, it’s going to take, unfortunately, long-term 
solutions to make sure we get there and get there-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right, but we also, I think, have to change 
the way we think, somewhat.  The model has always been private 
development; let them go through this process.  It’s taking too long. 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  You get no disagreement from me, Chairman. 
 
 
And, you know, obviously, you’ve pushed us with a lot of 
legislation that has helped us implement a lot of new-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Tell us what else you need-- 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  --laws that have been great. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Do you need any other legislation?  Tell us. 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  Well, and again, that’s what--  And, I know--  
Look, I hear you.  We are running out of time, and everyone at the Board 
agrees with that. 
SENATOR SMITH: OK. 
MR. LYKINS:  But, we still need to go through the process and 
study these issues on how best to get to the solution so that we don’t -- we 
can’t just keep throwing things at the wall; we’ve got to figure out the best 
way to do it. 
 
 
We are moving, and we are moving quickly. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right. 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  And, we-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Now, is Bob just arm candy here, or is he 
going to say something? 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  (laughter) 
 
 
 
26 
 
 
He’s going to answer the questions if you have technical 
questions. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any questions for the Board of Public 
Utilities? 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  I don’t have a question for the Board, but I 
did want to comment on what you just said about, it’s obvious. 
 
 
Actually, I think what we’re experiencing with the smoke is a 
proof that we don’t control our own air.  We’re getting smoke from Canada, 
so-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, a little from New Jersey.  We have 
5,000 acres burned down-- 
 
 
SENATOR DURR: I think there’s going to have to be a united 
front.  So, to say that we have control over what takes place in New Jersey is 
proof fact of right now. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I honestly don’t get the same conclusions 
you do, but it’s OK; we can disagree. 
 
 
Thank you for coming. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  I did want to say one thing. 
 
 
I might have missed the count.  You had nine, but I heard you 
say three, and then you went to eight, nine, so I think you kind of missed 
four, five, six, and seven. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The good thing about having written 
testimony is you can give us a copy and we can share it. 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  Yes, and you do have a copy. 
 
 
I read all nine, but I may have miscounted as I was going through 
them. 
 
 
 
27 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  OK. 
 
 
MR. LYKINS:  Lesson for the future, use numbers, not bullet 
points. 
 
 
And, I will say, to your point, Senator, you’re right.  There are a 
lot of things outside of New Jersey that we cannot control.  But, we have to 
do the things we can control, and we have to set an example and lead by 
example.  Somebody has to lead. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  I don’t disagree with that.  I do think we 
need to do something, and it has to be done yesterday.  But, I don’t think in 
today’s society we need to look at the taxpayers to do it.  I think we are  
sitting on a boatload of money, the government should pony up. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right.  Which, by the way, is ultimately 
taxpayers’ money as well.  But, I don’t disagree with you.  That whole 
question -- if we were flush with money, maybe the grid should be one of our 
top priorities. 
 
 
In any case, thank you, gentlemen, for coming in. 
 
 
Our third panel is Asim Haque, from PJM Interconnections.  
PJM is the source of all of our problems on this, so let’s greet Asim with great 
affection. 
 
 
Asim, what is PJM doing to help us get out of jail here? 
 A S I M   Z.   H A Q U E:  Chair Smith, Vice Chair Greenstein, members 
of the Committee, good morning. 
 
 
Well, with that hearty introduction, I am happy to be here 
representing PJM Interconnection.  PJM is the regional grid operator that 
runs the bulk electric system for 13 states and the District of Columbia, 
including the entirety of the State of New Jersey. 
 
 
 
28 
 
 
 We have testimony that we have provided to you -- it’s got the 
blue cover.  I will give you the CliffsNotes version of that testimony, but there 
are some diagrams in that testimony that you might find to be interesting as 
we progress through our discussion of my testimony. 
 
 
So, PJM -- again, regional grid operator that operates at the bulk 
electric system level.  And, I know many of you already know this, but 
electricity delivery generally consists of three components:  The generation of 
a watt; the transmission of that watt across high-voltage transmission lines; 
that watt then goes to a distribution substation where it is then taken by 
distribution utilities and pushed to consumers, residents, and businesses in 
the State of New Jersey.  That action is regulated by the New Jersey Board of 
Public Utilities, and they regulate distribution utilities -- who I believe are 
here today, who you’ll hear from. 
 
 
So, we operate purely at the bulk level.  So, the generation of a 
watt, and the high-voltage transmission of that watt, and reliability and 
affordability have been the cornerstones of PJM for many, many years now.  
We started, actually, in 1927 as a power pool and our mission continues to 
be reliability and affordability, although you will see that, certainly, our 
strategy has evolved to meet the times.  And, the times that we are dealing 
with are -- as has been discussed earlier today -- a number of State and Federal 
decarbonization policies that have been advancing, that we want to try and 
help to facilitate-- Why an entity like PJM. 
 
 
So, first and foremost, electrons don’t know state boundaries, so 
they cross a high-voltage transmission system that is interstate in nature, and 
by the use of regionality.  So, states able to share in the cost of the 
development of transmission facilities, we are able to save consumers’ money.  
 
 
 
29 
And, so, at the end of the day, our value proposition at PJM through both 
reliable delivery of power as well as this concept of pooling resources together 
saves consumers roughly $3.2 to $4 billion annually-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, but what if it results in them burning 
to death or having massive floods? 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  I think that is a very fair question, Chairman, and 
I want to get into that.  We are--  One more item, and I will address that 
question directly. 
 
 
PJM is a public utility that is regulated by the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission, under the Federal Power Act.  Our framework is 
effectively as a nonprofit; we are mission-driven with pre-determined rates, 
and those pre-determined rates do not allow for PJM to retain earnings.  So, 
we are unlike a typical “public utility” in that we don’t have shared prices; we 
don’t have quarterly earnings calls; we’re not beholden to shareholders; etc. 
 
 
Now, specifically to your question around decarbonization:  
Well, reliability and affordability have been the cornerstones of the PJM 
mission for a long time.  A few years ago, we adopted a five-year strategy.  
The first pillar of that five-year strategy is to facilitate State and Federal 
decarbonization policies reliably and cost-effectively.  So, that is a major, 
major item on PJM’s radar right now, and is part of our strategic effort going 
forward.  We have taken great strides to advance that particular pillar of our 
policy since we adopted this five-year strategy. 
 
 
We’re going to talk about interconnection.  We have, actually, 
undertaken a pretty exhaustive process to reform the interconnection process, 
which we’ll spend some time talking about.  We are currently--  And, we enjoy 
a really strong relationship with New Jersey Board of Public Utilities.  It is a 
 
 
 
30 
top-notch agency with top-notch professionals; you have heard from them 
already today, and we’ll call them veterans of the BPU.  And, Mr. Silverman, 
who has done a remarkable job not only at the BPU but generally speaking, 
talking to you all about energy policy. 
 
 
But, we are currently exploring a market mechanism to try and 
determine if there is a better way to more cost-effectively procure clean 
resource attributes.  There are a series of actions that we have taken to help 
facilitate State and Federal decarbonization policies -- probably the flagship 
being the State-agreement approach that was entered into between PJM and 
New Jersey for the build-out of transmission to support the build-out of 
offshore wind and meeting offshore wind objectives in the State.  Now, PJM 
continues to be concerned about reliability; you will see in my testimony that 
we talk about our concerns around the near term, intermediate term, and 
upcoming reliability concerns.  We’ve spent a lot of time analyzing reliability 
during the energy transition. 
 
 
We had a challenging event this last Christmas -- winter storm 
Elliott -- where today we have enough watts.  We have enough watts with 
what are called “essential reliability services,” but our generators did not 
perform up to the standards that we would expect for them to perform.  
That’s an immediate concern -- near-term concern.  If you haven’t had the 
opportunity to read a PJM report, it’s called “Energy Transition and PJM 
Resource Retirements, Replacements, and Risks --” we call it the Four R Paper.  
And, what we effectively say in that report is that we are seeing generation 
leave the system, projected by the end of this decade at one pace.  There is 
another pace of generation coming onto the system, which is not fast enough 
-- which we are doing our best to facilitate -- and, you are going to see load 
 
 
 
31 
growth across the system due to things like electrification and data centers.  
When you add all of those up, we have concerns about maintaining adequate 
supply late into this decade. 
 
 
The last item is this concept of the central reliability services that 
are sort of physics and grid-engineering properties, which I’m not smart 
enough to talk about, but the North American Electric Reliability 
Corporation is.  We will continue to need some mix of our thermal resources 
-- that’s nuclear, coal, and gas -- until a replacement technology is deployable 
at scale.  We cannot run a system -- a reliable power system -- purely on 
intermittent resources.  We are going to need some combination of those 
thermal resources in order to continue to provide reliable power.  And, that 
is not us saying that; that is the North American Electric Reliability 
Corporation. 
 
 
I want to talk about interconnection.  Abe brought up a couple 
concepts that I think I want to make sure to address.  Interconnection at the 
bulk level -- so, we just heard from Chance who talked about interconnection 
primarily at the distribution level -- let’s talk about interconnection at the 
bulk level.  You’ll see in my testimony on slide -- excuse me, on Page 5.  If 
you’re able to look at Page 5, what you will see is that, as renewable 
generation development has really soared, the type of new projects has shifted 
from a limited number of large resources to hundreds of smaller, more 
disperse renewable energy projects.  And, as a result, the number of projects 
that have entered the PJM queue has significantly increased over the past 
four years.  So, you’ll see, the numbers are sort of level at about -- we’ll say 
an average of 400 between 2010 and 2018.  In 2019, the projects entering 
the queue jot up to 709, and then in 2020, 1,028. 
 
 
 
32 
 
 
So, we recognized that this queue was changing based upon the 
resources that were entering the queue.  So, in October of 2020, we advanced 
a queue reform process.  That process resulted in a proposal that was pretty 
overwhelmingly supported by stakeholders and approved by the FERC -- 
again, we are regulated, so it was approved by the FERC in November of 
2022.  That new proposal -- or, excuse me, that new reform process -- is 
underway right now.  So, the transition -- you also see a particular set of 
metrics on slide six.  So, the transition that is starting right now is expected 
to process interconnection applications that cumulatively represent 260,000 
megawatts worth of resources over the next three years.  That’s 175% of our 
peak load. 
 
 
So, over the next three years, we are going to be studying a 
substantial, substantial number of renewable -- primarily renewable -- 
resources that are in our generation interconnection queue.  And, that will, 
in many ways, be an opportunity for a lot of renewable power to find its way 
to the grid. 
 
 
Chairman, a concern that PJM Interconnection has right now is 
that, as we sit here today--  So, we are going to be processing a lot of renewable 
power through the queue over the next few years.  As we sit here today, we 
currently have 44 gigawatts of primarily renewable power that have no more 
processes left at PJM Interconnection.  Meaning, they have signed 
interconnection service agreements, and we are not seeing those projects 
come to commercial fruition. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Because they can’t get into our-- First of 
all, New Jersey projects? 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  New Jersey projects, I have the statistics for you. 
 
 
 
33 
 
 
We have 47 projects representing roughly 43-45 megawatts -- so, 
4,345 megawatts -- that are outstanding right now.  And-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, by outstanding, they’re connected to 
the grid. 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  They are not connected to the grid, but, again, 
these are bulk power projects.  This does not have anything to do with the 
BPU, as far as I’m aware. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s going to go on the grid for everybody -
- for all the states 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  Go on the grid for -- sure.  Well, go on the grid 
for, primarily--  Based upon the transmission system, likely locally first, and 
then if their power is able to be electrically transmitted to other states, that 
is also a possibility. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, you’re saying they can’t get on the grid; 
the interconnection is too big of a problem? 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  No, no, no, that’s not what I’m saying at all. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK. 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  So, these are projects that have made their way 
through the interconnection queue.  They are done with PJM processes; they 
are done with the queue; but, they have not commercially deployed. 
 
 
Reasons that we’re hearing--  Abe cited a few of them.  We are 
hearing issues related to supply chain; we are hearing issues related to siting; 
we are hearing issues related to the financing, and we don’t deal -- at PJM 
Interconnection, we don’t deal with the sort of financing elements of this.  
But, we are hearing issues related to that as well. 
 
 
 
34 
 
 
I think probably a fruitful panel or a fruitful discussion would be 
to spend some time with some developers to say, “Hey, how can we help 
alleviate,” knowing that 260,000 megawatts of renewable resources are going 
to find their way through the PJM study process over the next few years; that 
we currently have 44,000 megawatts of resources, primarily renewable, that 
have found their way through the queue; that are done with PJM processes.  
Why are these not developing out?  I think that’s a really good conversation 
to be had.  Developers aren’t obligated to tell us why, but these are hearsay, 
some of the reasons that we’re hearing -- again, supply chain, siting, some 
financial-related issues.  There are a few others as well. 
 
 
But, again, that is the conundrum that we are facing today.  Now, 
that’s concerning, then, from PJM’s perspective, because if we are going to be 
pushing resources off of the system with some level of rapidity due to policy 
or other reasons, and we’re not seeing these resources that have found their 
way through PJM processes connect to the system, you can understand our 
concerns around maintaining reliability going forward. 
 
 
OK, the grid of the future:  So, we have a few items that are 
underway that I think are really sort of interesting items that are grid-related.  
We are obviously spending a lot of time thinking about electrification and 
electric vehicles.  As it relates to demand, we’ve partnered with some entities 
to figure out how we can utilize the grid to enable electric vehicles to have 
the ability to interact with the grid; to maintain reliability; and provide cost 
efficiency for electric vehicles going forward.  In my testimony, you will see 
that we have discussed items like dynamic line rating; we have discussed items 
like phasor measurement units. 
 
 
 
35 
 
 
I wanted to discuss one more item, because I do think that Abe 
is spot-on with this critique, which is that--  So, there are a couple items, a 
couple of bulk system items, that can help facilitate the transition.  One is 
reforming the interconnection queue, which, again, the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission has approved.  We are now in a position where we 
can mandate that the developer not only has site control -- has their land -- 
but also can meet certain financial metrics.  And, it’s a first ready versus a 
first in line regime. 
 
 
So, think about it this way.  If you were first in line, PJM 
engineers -- electrical engineers -- would study that project and everything 
downstream to make sure that everything electrically fit together.  But, maybe 
that project didn’t have its land; maybe that project didn’t even have 
financing -- couldn’t show, sort of, financial responsibility, and that project 
drops out.  Now we’ve got to re-study everything, OK, because the electricity 
dynamics have changed. 
 
 
So, now what we do is -- now what we’re going to do is -- who is 
first ready?  Meaning, who has got their land, and who has got -- who can 
show financial capability.  And, that will change the dynamics of the backlog, 
and hopefully streamline things to get things through quicker.  And, so, that’s 
just--  The queue has already undertaken reform.  There’s more to do there, 
there’s certainly more to do there. We’re exploring that, we’ve got a 
committee that’s working on that as well within our stakeholder process, 
we’re exploring that, so that’s the queue. 
 
 
The other item is long-term transmission planning.  OK, so, I 
agree with Abe’s critique.  Much of our transmission planning, I would say, 
is sort of action-react, and I think we need to be more proactive in the 
 
 
 
36 
transmission planning space.  We just announced very recently that we are 
going to be pushing down the path of advancing a long-term transmission 
planning regime.  This is something that the FERC has been looking at for a 
couple of years now -- long-term transmission planning.  We had been 
participatory, not only within our stakeholder process but also with the FERC 
on this subject.  The FERC hasn’t issued an order on this, but--  So, what 
does that mean?  That means that we are going to try and advance long-term 
transmission planning based upon the framework that has already been 
approved by the FERC. 
 
 
So, we are going to try and go at this with our stakeholders over 
the next many months.  And, so, we are excited to push, to move that process 
forward.  There is a very interesting discussion to be had around the 
socialization of these costs.  There is a very interesting discussion to have.  
We have 14 jurisdictions -- they all view it very differently. 
 
 
So, more to come on the cost allocation elements, but, certainly, 
we can get a long-term transmission planning framework in place; cost 
allocation TBD. 
 
 
That’s really it for my testimony.  I wanted to make sure--  Again, 
my testimony is nine pages long with some neat diagrams, but I wanted to 
make sure to be responsive to what the panel was discussing today. 
 
 
Thanks. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We do appreciate your participation. 
 
 
I don’t know that I can feel confident that we’re in a good spot, 
but I appreciate the efforts that PJM is making. 
 
 
Are there any questions from the panel?  (no response) 
 
 
All right, then our--  Thank you for coming in. 
 
 
 
37 
 
 
Our last panel-- 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --is Christina Farrell, Vice President of 
NJUA, which is the Utilities Association for New Jersey; Michael Schmid, 
Vice President of Asset Management Planning -- PSE&G; Michael Kayes, 
Managing Director of Transmission, Construction, and Maintenance -- 
PSE&G; Jim Fakult, President -- Jersey City Power and Light; Doug Mokoid, 
Region President -- Atlantic City Electric. 
 
 
Come on up, gentlemen and ladies. 
 
 
And, Christina, are you introduce-- 
C H R I S T I N A   F A R R E L L :  I am. I know there are only a few seats 
up there (indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Whatever you want to do; we’re easy. 
 
 
Take it away. 
 
 
MS. FARRELL:  Good morning, Chairman, members of the 
Committee. 
 
 
My name is Christina Farrell; I am the Vice President with the 
New Jersey Utilities Association. 
 
 
NJUA is a statewide trade association for investor-owned utilities 
that represent the IOUs that provide essential electric, natural gas, 
telecommunications, water, and wastewater services to your constituents 
throughout the state. 
 
 
I appreciate the opportunity to provide brief remarks today 
before you hear from three of our electric utility members on electric 
interconnection and grid modernization. 
 
 
 
38 
 
 
The EDCs are collectively focused on protecting the safety, 
integrity, and reliability of the electric grid, while facilitating the achievement 
of the State’s ambitious clean energy goals; accommodating customers’ 
growing interest in DERs; and making the interconnection application 
process more efficient and effective for all parties. 
 
 
With that in mind, all of the electric utilities that you will hear 
from today have been active participants in the board stakeholder process on 
proposed rule changes and interconnection.  You’ll hear today from JCP&L, 
Atlantic City Electric, and PSE&G on these things. 
 
 
And, we just appreciate the opportunity and the invitation on 
behalf of our electric utility members to participate in today’s hearing. 
M I C H A E L   S C H M I D:  Good morning, Chairman Smith, 
distinguished committee members. 
 
 
My name is Michael Schmid, and I am the Vice President for 
PSE&G of Asset Management and Planning.  I have with me today Mike 
KAYES, he’s our Managing Director of Tranmission, Construction, and 
Maintenance. 
 
 
And, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss our 
modernizing the grid and integrating more renewable energy, while ensuring 
reliability as well as affordability.  I appreciate the opportunity. 
 
 
We believe that PSE&G can significantly lower carbon emissions 
to the state to support the State and Federal goals that are out there.  We are 
all aware of the ones that came out in April of 2021 from the U.S. level that 
talks about getting 50% below 2005 levels by 2030, as well as achieving a 
net-zero economy-wide emissions by 2050.  We also know about Governor 
Murphy’s new climate goals that speak more about the 100% clean energy 
 
 
 
39 
by 2035 and electrification of 400,000 homes and 20,000 commercial 
properties by 2030, as well as the phase-out of gasoline-powered vehicles by 
2035. 
 
 
All those goals align very closely with PSE&G’s powering progress 
vision, and, that vision is simply -- it’s just a future where people use less 
energy; it’s cleaner; more reliable; and delivered more safely than ever.  And, 
that’s what we do and what we use to guide our work every day, and what 
we’re going to continue to use to guide our work going forward. 
 
 
Along with that, we’re laser-focused on reliability for providing a 
reliable service to our customers.  2022 was a great year for PSE&G; we’ve 
received our Reliability 1 award, which is looked at from -- it’s providing 
outstanding performance in the Mid-Atlantic metropolitan service area for 
21 straight years.  On top of that, we also received an Edison Award -- the 
award is the electric utility industry’s highest honor, and we received that 
award specifically for the work we did to protect New Jersey communities 
and customers from extreme weather events. 
 
 
But, in order to get to where we know what’s coming, we’re 
looking at focusing on three key areas:  The first, providing the cleaner energy 
and fighting climate change; the second is investing in infrastructure that 
creates a more reliable grid; and then, also, support clean and affordable 
energy through investments in different programs.  So, we’re also committed 
to decarbonizing the transportation sector and, you know, the growing 
electric vehicle infrastructure is going to help us reduce the leading source of 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
 
 
We’re also committed to nuclear power.  Our nuclear power units 
produce over 80% of New Jersey’s carbon-free energy, and it’s the foundation 
 
 
 
40 
in New Jersey’s supply of carbon-free power.  And, with the anticipated 
increase in electric command, we’re committed to simultaneously reducing 
the overall energy use through energy efficiency and cleaner technologies. 
 
 
It’s clear that this electrification is not going to happen 
overnight.  When you look at the 400,000 homes and the 20,000 commercial 
properties that were identified in the Governor’s executive order by 2030, 
even if that were to happen, that’s only a fraction of what’s in our service 
territory along the PSE&G.  So, we have to be pragmatic; we have to focus 
on strengthening our current infrastructure and making all the necessary 
investments to achieve that clean energy transition.  Over the next five years, 
we plan to invest $15.5 billion to modernize our system, which is going to 
help achieve these goals. 
 
 
The clean energy transmission, it’s a two-fold challenge.  It 
requires increased investment in our distribution system so that we can safely 
and reliably meet the increased demand that’s happening with the electric 
power, whether it be for people’s vehicles or heating their homes.  And, we 
also have to look at the shift to non-carbon emitting resources.  It’s worth 
noting -- and, you heard a little bit earlier from the other speakers -- that the 
fossil fuels that are now produced, there’s 60% are fossil fuels in PJM’s 
generation.  If that doesn’t change, then moving towards electrification really 
will not improve our climate impact, and it also isn’t going to get us to that 
better use of the cleaner energy resources. 
 
 
So, in anticipation of the load growth that we see coming, as well 
as from electrification -- our 10-year business plan -- we’re looking at 
upgrading more than 60 substations.  That’s going to add additional capacity 
into the system, and that additional capacity is going to allow us to--  And, 
 
 
 
41 
what we’ve looked at is it allows about 845,000 light-duty vehicles to be 
added into our service territory.  And, that’s essentially 10 times more than 
what we currently have today, so just to put it in perspective.  And, it’s also 
going to support--  By doing that, it’s going to support adding about 1,000 
megawatts of distributed energy resources like solar and other things into our 
system. 
 
 
But, now we move a little bit more to our resiliency perspective.  
In the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, we’ve raised and rebuilt 48 flood-
prone substations through our programs like Energy Strong.  And, those 
upgrades, there’s another 20 substations that are underway that will be 
completed by next year.  So, increased reliance on electricity will make the 
reliability a greater concern for our customers.  And, what we recently put 
together and had approved in 2022 is our Infrastructure Investment Program.  
And, that program is really specifically designed to go after that last mile 
distribution investment, to build on that reliability.  And, if you think about 
it, when you look outside and you look at the plant, the outside plant, our 
poles and wires that you see along the street, some of them are original 
equipment and some of them are greater than 90 years old. 
 
 
So, we recognize the long list that we also have to look at it from 
an affordability perspective, and it’s an important consideration.  That’s why 
we continue to say that energy efficiency and conservation is a priority -- you 
heard that from the other speaker -- and that’s why PSE&G, our landmark 
$1 billion energy efficiency program was a great success.  Over 2,000 New 
Jersey residents have been put to work implementing that program, and it is 
expected to save any of our participating customers over $300 million a year. 
 
 
 
42 
 
 
Now, I want to just turn it over to Mike Kayes, who is going to 
speak a little bit more about the issues related to interconnections. 
M I C H A E L   K A Y E S:  Good morning; thank you for the opportunity 
to speak. 
 
 
PSE&G is the largest transmission owner in the State of New 
Jersey.  In support of the programs that Michael has spoken about, and, since 
2003, we have rebuilt or replaced almost 660 miles of the high-voltage 
transmission system in the state. 
 
 
We’re continuing to work.  The focus is now shifting more 
towards the 69 KB backbone in this state to be able to provide that resiliency, 
and increase the capacity that Michael spoke about when it comes to 
electrification.  Additionally, New Jersey is uniquely positioned to be the 
leader in the offshore industry, in offshore wind.  PSE&G was a supporter of 
this.  We were involved with the state agreement approach -- solicitations -- 
and was awarded the offshore upgrades for some of those upgrades. 
 
 
This is all dependent upon a wholesale interconnection process 
that has three key players:  You have the developer, which you’ve heard about 
before; the transmission owner; and PJM.  All three play a critical role in the 
process.  PJM has worked with its stakeholders, including PSE&G, to develop 
new interconnection rules to help us move forward and make sure that queue 
is more efficient.  The rules are now in place, and they are being implemented, 
and for PSE&G’s part, the company is not contributing to any PJM backlog 
at the current time for grid-connected solar projects.  To be more specific, the 
backlog--  To be more specific, there are no outstanding studies attributed to 
PSE&G at this time. 
 
 
 
43 
 
 
There are four queue requests that are awaiting agreement -- 
which you heard PJM speak about -- and there are 14 studies that are pending 
application review and requiring action by other stakeholders.  On the 
transmission planning front, PJM -- they must be able to respond to often 
diverging State policies, which we see with the energy needs.  And, this is 
challenging because, you heard before, there’s 14 states that have different 
policies, and trying to aggregate that all to make sure that the grid can accept 
that is a challenge. 
 
 
So, New Jersey may be like (indiscernible) other states, and we 
would support those goals of those states.  You heard before that PJM is a 
reasonable planner, and need to engage in a long and robust planning that 
properly reflects the expected long-term changes to the system.  One of the 
challenges that we see is the retirement of fossil resources, which relies on a 
90-day retirement notice window, which is insufficient for planning.  So, if a 
generator wants to retire, all they’re required to do is provide 90 days notice 
to PJM for that -- very challenging when you’re looking at the bandwidth on 
a system and how to actually make sure we can feed the load. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Is that New Jersey State or is that PJM 
policy? 
 
 
MR. KAYES:  That’s PJM, across the board, PJM -- that’s their 
rule. 
 
 
PJM’s load forecast-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Is PJM’s guy still here? 
 
 
MR. KAYES:  I’m sorry, I couldn’t hear you, sir. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, so you heard that:  90 days is too short.  
On the notice with the fossil fuel-- 
 
 
 
44 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  (indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Please take that back. 
 
 
MR. KAYES:  Thank you. 
 
 
PJM’s load forecast needs to align with that of its states.  The 
recent review shows we have approximately 2,000 megawatts difference 
between the 2032 outlook for PSE&G -- our 10-year plan and window -- and 
PJM’s load forecast.  We are working with PJM to correct this and make sure 
that we are aligned so that we have proper ability to feed the needs of our 
customers. 
 
 
PJM should make necessary steps, which may include market 
design and reform -- which you’re hearing about -- to ensure that states can 
electrify the energy used, does not come from carbon-intensive generation.  
So, what Michael talked about before, 60% right now in the PJM footprint 
still comes from carbon-based-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Let me ask you a question. 
 
 
In fact, there are people in the room, or a part of this movement 
to see that no other natural gas plants are put online; to see the compressor 
stations are not expanded; a whole bunch of projects all over the state. 
 
 
Are we ready to turn off the switch on these new facilities?  In 
other words, not have them built?  How would either the grid react to that, 
or the planning that you’ve done react to it?  How would the citizens react 
to it? 
 
 
MR. KAYES:  I think it goes back to that robust 10-year planning 
process -- understanding what’s going on. 
 
 
Obviously, it’s--  We’re all connected when it comes to that 
generation. 
 
 
 
45 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right. 
 
 
MR. KAYES:  And, there’s not one--  I don’t think there’s one 
solution that gets you where you want to be, and all that has to be studied is 
part of that planning window. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That’s a very Secretary-of-State answer. 
 
 
MR. KAYES:  Let me be a little more specific. 
 
 
So, we work very closely with PJM.  We get their load forecasts, 
we do our own load forecast as well, so they have -- from a transmission 
standpoint -- and then we look at it for what’s happening at the distribution 
level. 
 
 
And, I can get more specific.  We have--  And, that’s why I 
referenced the $15.5 billion worth of investments.  We are ready for people, 
and our system is ready to accommodate what we see and what we planned 
for. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Again, pretty diplomatic. 
 
 
The question I’m asking -- because of the way in which you as an 
elected official looks at things -- if you’re going to change the law, are the 
impacts good, bad, or are they ill-timed? 
 
 
If we did not allow any further natural gas plants in New Jersey 
to be erected -- saying, today, the button is switched -- would our system be 
able to handle it? 
 
 
MR. KAYES:  I don’t have the specific answers, and, really, it 
depends because we may not produce all our energy that we need in New 
Jersey currently.  And, that’s a challenge for us.  If you made a legislation that 
impacted New Jersey, you may still import natural gas generation from the 
 
 
 
46 
west of us in order to feed our load at the end of the day.  That’s the reality 
that we’re facing here with this. 
 
 
So, unfortunately, PSE&G no longer is in that fossil industry.  
So, we don’t--  There are units that are in the State of New Jersey that should 
run to feed that.  But, is there solar and renewables currently on the grid that 
could meet our need?  I would say no. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Not currently.  OK. 
 
 
Sorry to interrupt. 
 
 
MR. KAYES:  No, it’s an interesting point, because we 
appreciate--  That’s what we’re here to talk about, right? 
 
 
And, we appreciate the Office of BPU through its grid 
modernization.  They’re pushing for some of this stuff to go on.  They’ve 
engaged all the electric delivery companies in the state, looking to modernize 
the process and move forward.  The state with BPU shaped the regulatory 
foundation of New Jersey for the clean energy future.  PSE&G will only 
continue to work with that as we go forward. 
 
 
Some of the highlights for PSE&G is that we have connected 
more than 75,000 metered solar installations with a total capacity of 1,750 
megawatts.  We also have about 200 megawatts of grid-connected solar and 
service that are under construction at the current time.  PSE&G has 
participated and provides comments as needed to whole sessions of the BPU’s 
recent multi-year grid-modernization effort.  We welcome this effort and the 
opportunity to continue to assist the BPU and create clean energy solutions 
for New Jersey that contemplate efforts ongoing at PJM and FERC. 
 
 
We’re committed and well-positioned to support the State’s 
goals, and doing our part to build a cleaner future for New Jersey while 
 
 
 
47 
keeping energy affordable, highly reliable, and increasingly more efficient.  
We are committed to accepting the challenge of delivering an even cleaner 
energy for the future.  We take our responsibility of keeping the lights on and 
the heat on very seriously, and committed to continuing to doing right for 
further electrifying and decarbonizing our systems to respond to the growing 
demands of them and transitioning into an energy of the future envisioned 
by all. 
 
 
PSE&G remains committed to cooperating and collaborating 
with the legislative and the Board of Public Utilities, PJM, and other 
stakeholders in advancing policies that respond to these new challenges.  This 
involves the needs of our customers and retaining a talented and diverse 
workforce that helps investment reality. 
 
 
Thank you for the opportunity for participating today. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Gentlemen. 
D O U G   M O K O I D:  Good morning, Chairman Smith and Committee 
Members. 
 
 
My name is Doug Mokoid, Region President for Atlantic City 
Electric, and I appreciate the opportunity to speak to you today on the future 
of the electric grid in New Jersey, and Atlantic City Electric’s efforts to 
modernize the grid in southern New Jersey for our 568,000 customers. 
 
 
Atlantic City Electric is committed to being a critical partner in 
helping New Jersey advance a clean energy future and meet the goals of the 
Energy Master Plan.  We recognize the grid is a platform that supports this 
transition.  We will continue to make investments in our infrastructure to 
build a modern, reliable, resilient, and flexible grid that will continue to 
 
 
 
48 
accelerate the clean energy transition for our customers and communities 
while also focusing on affordability and supporting equity in this transition. 
 
 
In February, we announced that Atlantic City Electric’s 
customers experienced a record service level in 2022.  Our investments in 
infrastructure projects to build a smarter, stronger, and cleaner energy grid 
resulted in the lowest frequency of customer outages ever.  The frequency of 
outages in 2022 decreased from the previous record low in 2021 by more 
than 6%, and has improved by over 56% over the past 10 years. 
 
 
To create and maintain a climate-ready grid, we have made 
significant operational enhancements and proposed innovative solutions, all 
of which contribute to a platform for smarter, safer, and more affordable 
outcomes in the face of climate change.  To that end, we focus on several key 
areas to foster ACE’s climate-ready vision. 
 
 
So, first, ACE envisions a climate-ready grid as being able to host 
a variety of smart, integrated, distributed energy resources like solar and 
battery energy storage, as well as integrating large energy systems like offshore 
wind.  Our goal is to make the interconnection of these DERs faster, less 
expensive, and more transparent.  More efficient DER connection will also 
create grid enhancement efforts as we upgrade and modernize the grid to 
accommodate new resources.  With new connected devices on the system, 
ACE can create a smarter grid leveraging new IT tools.  To that end, ACE’s 
continued deployment of advanced distribution-management systems and 
distributed energy-resource management systems has foundational elements 
of a climate-ready grid. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Doug, let me interrupt you for a second. 
 
 
 
49 
 
 
What you’re telling -- or, what I’m listening to -- sounds 180 
degrees from what I’ve heard about your grid in South Jersey, in the ACE 
territory.  And, I’ve heard it from the solar developers.  They say, “We would 
like to build a grid-scale solar facility in the ACE territory.  There’s no 
capacity; we can’t get on the grid.” 
 
 
So, I mean, are you putting lipstick on a pig? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  No. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Or, is this--  What’s going on? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  I’ll jump right to solar, and I’ll get into specifics 
on solar. 
 
 
So, connecting customers to solar and other clean energy 
resources is a top priority for ACE.  To date, we’ve helped nearly 50,000 
customers out of our 568,000 totaling more than -- connect; adopt solar -- 
totaling more than 550 megawatts.  In fact, solar has experienced such high 
penetration in ACE’s service territory that it now accounts for about 25% of 
our net peak demand. 
 
 
We recognize that continuing to sustain solar grid with such a 
large amount of solar in our system requires ongoing investment and grid 
modernization.  To that end, and to enable solar connections in South Jersey, 
we recently proposed $33 million in investments to our “Powering the 
Future” filing to resolve closed feeders, which would pave the way for 
additional 50,000 new rooftop solar customers. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right, is that in front of the BPU now? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, have they approved it? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  It is -- not yet; it’s pending. 
 
 
 
50 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, when do you expect to have an answer 
from them? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  Shortly. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, is BPU here?  (no response) 
 
 
Everybody wants to say their piece and then leave; they don’t 
want to listen to anybody else. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Chairman. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  From my perspective, isn’t fossil fuels 
produce more than 50% of our power?  The reliability is required at 91%. 
 
 
So, how is the offshore wind and the solar going to replace that? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  Well, since last year in February, Exelon now -
- which is the parent company of Atlantic City Electric-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Right-- 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  --is a purely transmission and distribution 
company.  We no longer have generation under our portfolio; the company 
split and that company is a separately traded company -- a consolidation. 
 
 
But, we envision the clean energy future of a combination of 
sources that will feed into the grid. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Having a multitude of items on the 
portfolio, not just one. 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  Yes, we envision a-- 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  But you agree that nuclear and fossil fuels 
play an intricate part of our future power? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  I would say clean energy resources-- 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Clean natural gas-- 
 
 
 
51 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  --clean energy resources--  Our role is a 
connector, and we intake those clean energy resources onto our grid.  And, 
that is our role as we see in the future, as a connector. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, well, what you’re saying is -- and, 
maybe I listened to the wrong people -- is counter to what I’ve heard in the 
ACE territory. 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  I’ll be specific. 
 
 
So, we recognize the challenges.  We have such -- again, 50,000 
solar connections to date at ACE on our 568,000 total customers. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  You’d like to get credit for some of the good 
things, I got that. 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  But, that’s a high penetration, right?  And, our 
electric grid -- I’ll get into it next -- the closed feeders that we have -- so, there 
are closed feeders on our system; residential customers and large solar 
developers are unable to connect to our grid. 
 
 
The closed feeders -- either residential or large scale, can’t 
connect -- are often caused by a substation transformer limitation due to 
reverse power (indiscernible).  In response to that, we’ve incorporated over-
voltage protection into our standard transformer protective relaying package 
across the ACE system.  So, there’s a couple of pieces to that that I want to 
highlight.  All newly constructed projects -- when we have new construction 
-- we utilize the standard going forward.  The standard does maintain the 
safety, reliability, and resiliency of our system, and preventing reverse power 
flow and when there’s high penetration of distributive energy resources 
present like solar. 
 
 
 
52 
 
 
By the end of 2023, we will complete work at four of our 
substations that will open in 11 closed feeders to customers.  Combine that 
with the three feeders that we’ve already opened -- so, we’re opening 14 
feeders by the end of 2023 due to-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  If BPU approves-- 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  No, this is-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  This is already in the works? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  This is already in the works. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK. 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  So, this is outside of the filing that we have in 
front of the BPU. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK. 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  Additionally -- so, it’s a multi-layered approach 
here.  We recognize, with the high level of penetration of solar on the ACE 
system, and the--  Our system is very rural in a lot of areas like Salem, where 
I grew up. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  How would ACE make it easier? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  How will we make it easier? 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Easier interconnection. 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  There’s two pieces. 
 
 
One, when we update those, that standard, and the relaying 
packages on our substation transformers, that removes the majority of the 
current roadblocks that we see for connection.  So, we have a program in 
place for new customers -- for newly constructed projects when we do it.  And, 
then, we are also--  We have established a multi-year program to proactively 
install over-voltage protection schemes on our transformers in order to 
 
 
 
53 
protect our equipment for reverse power flow.  That’s the issue that we have.  
This program is expected to begin -- the large-scale program -- in 2024, and 
will help us -- prevent us -- from needing to close circuits to solar in future 
years. 
 
 
So, we anticipate that will be a three- to four-year program, and 
you should see the number of closed feeders go down much like they have 
gone down this year, ramping down toward the end of that program.  That 
will account for the majority of closed feeders for residential solar on our 
system.  The only limitation there is when solar gets into a circuit, when the 
circuit’s capacity of around 44%, then we’ll have to do some additional work.  
But, we’re going to make substantial progress here over the next several years. 
 
 
The other piece you mentioned, Chairman, was large-scale solar.  
So, we are exploring ways to support through the BPU’s grid-modernization 
proceedings and also in conversations with BPU staff to support large-scale 
solar projects with a focus on developing cost-sharing mechanisms that lower 
the financial barriers for solar developers for large interconnections over 1 
megawatt.  So, we’re evaluating multiple scenarios on there where, I think 
Abe Silverman highlighted the causer-pays model -- the current causer-pays 
model -- how do we allocate this cost across solar developers?  So, when one 
developer wants to come in and say Cumberland County, where it’s very 
rural, and wants to -- or Salem County, where I’m from -- wants to install a 
large-scale solar project and the timeframe and the cost may be not palatable 
to that.  So, how do we do it in a way where we distribute those costs while 
protecting the ratepayers and ensuring -- protecting might be a strong word.  
While ensuring the ratepayers are protected -- yes, are protected in this, 
because affordability is the top of our mind. 
 
 
 
54 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Doug, what do you need to open up the 
feeders? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  We have our programs in place to open up the 
feeders. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  How many applications do you have right 
now for it? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  We have 1,250 -- I think, at last count -- 
applications on closed feeders. 
 
 
The work that we’re doing this year on the 14 circuits will open 
up 250-plus of them.  And, then, through the next couple of years, we will 
ramp them down for the residential solar.  It is a priority of ours.  We have 
developed plans to address our closed feeders so we know what needs to be 
done, and we put them into what we call our LRP, our long-range planning 
process, so that work is accounted for in our long-range planning and our 
budgeting process, and we’re working that down. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, thank you. 
 
 
And, the other gentleman there is for support, or is there 
something you’re here to say? 
 
 
MR. MOKOID:  He’s (indiscernible) as well. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Arm candy. 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  I’ll touch on some of this in my 
testimony, if you want -- I’m not aware of any feeder issues or challenges that 
we’ve had.  We’ve connected over 40,000 solar-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, you are-- 
J A M E S  F A K U L T:  JCP&L. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  JCP&L, OK. 
 
 
 
55 
 
 
So, if you wouldn’t mind, give us a nutshell version. 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  Sure. 
 
 
Well, first of all, Chairman Smith and members of the 
Committee, thank you very much for allowing me to testify. 
 
 
I do have written testimony. I’ll touch on the highlights on what 
I wanted to cover. 
 
 
I just want to start with the obvious.  The electric grid is essential 
to the provision of electric service and needs of customers in New Jersey.  It 
is paramount that the State proceeds with caution (indiscernible). 
 
 
The interconnection process should, first and foremost, be about 
protecting the integrity and maintaining reliability as we work together 
simultaneously to make the interconnection process more efficient; achieve 
the Energy Master Plan’s ambitious goals; and accommodate customers’ 
growing interest in the distributed energy resources and ensure a thorough 
planning process. 
 
 
So, regarding interconnections, JCP&L measures it based on new 
net meters, or meters that read both electric consumed or generated, for 
example, customers installing electric panels.  I would also say that we, along 
with the other electric utilities in this state, are engaged with the BPU 
stakeholder process about the proposed changes and the rules governing it, 
and will continue to keep very active and involved in that regulatory process 
as well. 
 
 
We do believe additional resources -- there were some great 
speakers here today to testify -- I think the more is good to have this 
discussion. 
 
 
 
56 
 
 
So, let me--  I’ll get into a few specifics.  So, in the first quarter 
of this year, JCP&L has processed about 1,450 applications for 
interconnection and provided final approval on 1,381 of those.  So, the 
bottom line is about 95% of our applications are fairly small -- less than 25 
KW, your typical residential customers.  And, generally, a study is not done.  
Our developers know our process; we work with them frequently, and 
generally they get done pretty quickly.  You don’t need to do studies; we 
don’t need to construct.  And, as I said a few moments ago, to my knowledge 
I’m not experiencing -- or, we’re not experiencing -- any meter problems, but 
we do keep our eye on it.  We have advanced tools that measure it out into 
the future. 
 
 
Now, when you get to the larger interconnection applications, 
we’ll see about 40 or 50 of them a year, it’s about 1% of the total.  Those do 
require longer times to study circuit modeling.  Sometimes you have to 
replace transformers; upgrade substations; things along those lines.  And, 
again, we try to stay ahead of the (indiscernible) to speak on those. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  What are you doing right now -- are you 
doing anything in other states than New Jersey? 
 
 
MR. FARKULT:  You know, that’s a fair question.  We do serve 
five other states as First Energy. 
 
 
You know, New Jersey is leading the pace in the First Energy 
families, relative to solar, and behind-the-meter installations.  So, we 
probably have about 80-90% of all the installations across First Energy right 
here in Jersey. 
 
 
Now, I will say -- and, I was going to touch on AMI.  I mean, a 
lot of talk about smart meters, I think it’s integral to this whole discussion.  
 
 
 
57 
We started a process of installing smart meters this year, we went through an 
engineering phase last year. We’ve got about 85,000 -- or, 82,000 -- smart 
meters installed since March 15 of this year. About 37,000 of those are 
certified, which means they’re actually acting as smart meters and providing 
us the information that they were intended to.  We planned a complete-- 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  You need that information to figure out 
what’s-- 
 
 
MR. FARKULT:  That information will read meters, allow us to 
send out a bill-- 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  And, so, you can use that as a guide for 
future stuff. 
 
 
MR. FARKULT:  Exactly.  It’s going to provide us a lot of detail 
and a lot of information to help us in the future. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good for the customers, too. I would 
assume--  Do you have modified graded rates, depending on when you’re 
using electricity? 
 
 
I know it’s the same-- 
 
 
MR. FARKULT:  Yes, not at this point though-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The theory is you’re going to know when 
the utility would like you to be using electricity, and the incentive will be a 
lower rate. 
 
 
So, maybe you’ll do your laundry, or do whatever, at 12, 1 
o’clock in the morning, but you’ll save a bunch of money.  That’s what the 
smart meters lead into it. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Right, and so-- 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  It’s one of the benefits, correct. 
 
 
 
58 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  So having anybody saying they don’t want 
to share information-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Well, that’s-- The information issue is 
another issue. 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  At this point, we’ve only had about a half a 
percent of customers opt out or not want smart meters as we’ve reached out 
to them, so I think it’s been a pretty good -- it’s probably what we expected. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It worked out. 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  Yes, it’s about what we expected -- about a half 
a percent. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, how about on the labor side? 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  I beg pardon? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  How about on the labor side?  How has 
your labor force reacted to it? 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  They understand it’s happening.  We told them 
several years ago when the order was passed we will commit to maintaining a 
job in a place at JCP&L for all-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, it has not created turmoil in your 
organization? 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  No. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK. 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  The other item -- you know, JCP&L has 112 
automatic distribution circuit tie schemes in place, and I think Doug touched 
on that a little bit as well at ACE.  And, we’re continuing to invest in that. 
 
 
What that essentially does is it allows for real-time monitoring 
of the grid; it allows for automatic picking up of customers if we lose a circuit.  
 
 
 
59 
And, we’re continuing to invest in that.  Over the next several years, we plan 
to put in an additional 80 circuits with these schemes that I think are very 
good for customers, and a very good part of the future of the grid.  And we 
will be filing a plan -- the Infrastructure Investment Plan -- this year. So, we’re 
not ready to announce it yet, but that will help us to accelerate the 
installation of these automatic circuits as well. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Where is the energy more affordable and 
reliable, as opposed to Jersey and Ohio? 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  Where is it more--  I think New Jersey -- that’s a 
good question. 
 
 
Our rates are the lowest in this state, as far as JCP&L rates, our 
reliability, I think, in the state has been very, very good as well.  We’ve met 
the reliability standards of the BPU-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Ever since the July 4 weekend in Seaside 
Heights several years ago. 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  I understand, Senator. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  My lights went out. 
 
 
Anyway, it sounds like you’re making very good efforts to keep 
your system up and responding to the need. 
 
 
I want to thank you gentlemen for coming out today, and more 
to follow. 
 
 
MR. FAKULT:  Thank you; thank you, everyone. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you. 
 
 
And, thanks to all the witnesses who came today. 
 
 
 
60 
 
 
We need to get a little work done.  Let’s do 2708, which is 
Senator Zwicker’s bill.  It requires the DEP to consider the potential impacts 
to natural resources when classifying dams according to a hazard potential. 
 
 
So, Doug O’Malley, Environment New Jersey, wants to be 
recorded as in favor with no need to testify.  Anjuli Ramos from New Jersey 
Sierra Club -- in favor, no need to testify.  Phil Echevarria is in favor -- Phil, 
are you here?  You are here.  --Who is in favor; he represents the Nature 
Conservancy. 
 
 
But, Phil, maybe you can give us the short version of why this is 
a good thing to do. 
P H I L   E C H E V A R R I A:  Well, I have a long essay, but, I guess I’ll 
(indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  No, and you don’t want to ever read.  
Everybody falls asleep. 
 
 
MR. ECHEVARRIA:  Well, unfortunately, our dam expert isn’t 
here today, so you got the B-list. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  (indiscernible) 
 
 
MR. ECHEVARRIA:  I’m going to have to read from it, Senator, 
I apologize. 
 
 
Good morning Chairman Smith and Members of the Committee. 
 
 
My name is Phil Echevarria, and I am the Director of 
Government Relations for the New Jersey Chapter of the Nature 
Conservancy. 
 
 
I’ll be brief with my comments, as we’ve submitted our points 
yesterday.  Normally, I would be joined by our Director of Freshwater 
 
 
 
61 
Programs, who is the expert on dam removal at TNC, but, unfortunately, she 
is currently presenting a Rutgers course on dam removal, so you got me. 
 
 
TNC strongly supports S2708 and believes when classifying a 
hazardous dam, the State should take into consideration the impact on our 
natural resources.  Currently, the State classifies dams to three categories:  
low, medium, and high.  And, the criteria of the dam and how it’s ranked is 
based on the impact to loss of life and property.  If a dam were to breach, it 
has the potential to impact vulnerable ecosystems, which can cause 
irreparable damage -- especially with the threat of climate change and 
biodiversity facing our world.  
 
 
We owe it to future generations to prioritize our environment 
the same way that we prioritize people and property.  I urge you to vote yes 
for 2708, and I’ll be happy to answer any questions to the best of my ability. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That was short and sweet. 
 
 
Any questions?  (no response) 
 
 
There being none -- there being some -- go ahead, Senator. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  I have one question; it might not even apply 
to this. 
 
 
But, would this bill prohibit a private owner from placing a dam 
on their property? 
 
 
MR. ECHEVARRIA:  Placing, no, but all dams, even if they were 
to be removed, need to have the authorization of the dam owner. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  So, the government would have a say over 
personal property. 
 
 
MR. ECHEVARRIA:  Correct. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I think that’s the current law now. 
 
 
 
62 
 
 
MR. ECHEVARRIA:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All that the bill does is they consider 
potential damages to natural resources as part of the decision-making process 
when you’re considering to remove a dam. 
 
 
It just adds to the criteria and to the decision, right? 
 
 
MR. ECHEVARRIA:  Correct. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Good? 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  I’m good. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, Bill Kibler, Raritan Headwaters   
-- in favor. 
 
 
Mr. Kibler, why is this a good thing to do? 
 
 
And, this is the last witness. 
 
 
Bill. 
B I L L   K I B L E R, J.D.:  Thank you, Senator. 
 
 
As you may be aware, there are over 1,800 regulated structures 
in the State of New Jersey -- and, I use the term “regulated structures” 
intentionally, because a dam isn’t a dam in the State of New Jersey unless it 
raises the water level at least 5 feet above the normal low water mark.  So, 
there are a lot of structures that you and I would recognize as a dam that are 
not necessarily regulated as dams.  All of those structures -- whether they’re 
regulated or not -- have a significant short-term and long-term impact on our 
watersheds.  
 
 
So, what we see in my watershed -- and, you’ll see it elsewhere in 
the State -- for example, is much higher water temperatures. Upstream of the 
dam, you see a significant amount of sediment buildup. We see the 
temperatures rise as those impoundments get shallower and shallower. 
 
 
 
63 
 
 
And, one of the impacts that folks often don’t consider are the 
impacts downstream of the dam.  So, I won’t give you a tutorial in physics -- 
I’ll let Senator Zwicker handle the physics side of this -- but streams carry 
sediment, and the amount of sediment that they carry is a function of velocity 
and volume; how fast the stream is moving, and how much water is moving 
in the system.  When you put a dam in the middle of that system, it messes 
up the physics.  The water stops moving, the velocity drops, and all the 
sediment drops out.  That’s what -- that’s the impact that we tend to see, that 
impacts water quality, it impacts habitat. 
 
 
What we often don’t consider are the impacts downstream.  So, 
when that water comes over the dam -- which is almost always very warm 
water, because it’s coming off the top of that impoundment -- when that 
water comes over the dam, it’s picking up velocity.  So, as it picks up velocity, 
it’s picking up sediment.  Where is it going to get the sediment from?  It has 
to carry the sediment; it’s just physics.  It gets the sediment from immediately 
downstream of the dam.  So, the area downstream of the dam gets severely 
scoured.  We call it “the sediment start.”  And, if you go and look at one of 
these dams and look downstream, you’ll see these impacts for hundreds of 
yards, sometimes a mile or more downstream of a dam. 
 
 
So, the impacts of dams on the environment are very significant.  
The challenge we’ve always had is to get dams safety; to look at things other 
than just the engineering aspects.  So, that’s the intention of this bill.  We 
support it, I think it is an excellent idea to get dam safety, talking to other 
folks in the Department about impacts of these dams other than on human 
health and real estate. 
 
 
 
64 
 
 
Before I leave Senator, I recognize that the Department may 
have challenges with having enough folks to implement the bill.  My response 
to that is that the answer ought to be -- the answer shouldn’t be, “We can’t 
do this because we don’t have the bodies.”  The answer ought to be, “We’re 
happy to do this, but we need more resources.” 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Mr. Kibler, that was our last witness. 
 
 
Any discussion?  (no response) 
 
 
Motion to release by our good Senator, and myself -- I’ll be happy 
to second. 
 
 
Let’s take a roll call vote. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  On the motion to release Senate Bill 2708. 
 
 
Senator Stanfield. 
 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  Yes. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Durr. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  That was a reluctant yes, but it-- 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  It is a reluctant yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s still a yes; it still counts. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Singleton left a yes vote. 
 
 
Senator Greenstein stepped out -- I’ll get her vote later. 
 
 
And, Chairman Smith. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
 
And, the bill is released. 
 
 
Next bill is Senator Deignan’s bill, 3255.  Increases the 
percentage of reclaimed asphalt pavement that can be used for local road 
 
 
 
65 
projects, and -- let me -- just FYI, before Assemblyman Karabinchak, who is 
the sponsor in the Senate, weighs in, we have all these people not testifying. 
 
 
Matt Halpin, New Jersey Society of Municipal Engineers -- he’s 
going to actually testify. 
 
 
Abby Adams, Associated Construction Contractors -- in favor, no 
need to testify.  Ryan Sharpe, Utility and Transportation Contractors 
Association of New Jersey -- in favor, no need to testify.  Ryan Berger, New 
Jersey SEED -- in favor, no need to testify.  Ray Cantor, NJBIA -- in favor, no 
need to testify.  Kyle England, New Jersey Concrete and Aggregate 
Association -- in favor, no need to testify.  Mike Egenton, New Jersey State 
Chamber of Commerce -- in favor, no need to testify.  Mark Longo from the 
Operating Engineers Labor Management Fund, ELEC 825 -- in favor, no need 
to testify. 
 
 
And, we have two witnesses who actually want to say something 
-- not counting the sponsor in the Assembly, Assemblyman Rob Karabinchak. 
 
 
Why is this a good thing to do, Assemblyman? 
A S S E M B L Y M A N   R O B E R T   J.   K A R A B I N C H A K:  
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
I am here just to testify quickly regarding the bill.  This is 
something that we’ve been talking about for years.  Currently, we have over 
15 million tons of recycled asphalt in piles all around the State of New Jersey. 
 
 
As we all know, as we drive through this beautiful state, we see 
our roads being changed and resurfaced.  That creates the piles.  However, 
we have not been able to use that recycled material back into the roadways.  
 
 
That’s what this bill does.  It puts a little bit higher percentages 
back into the local, municipal, and the State highways.  We’ve worked with 
 
 
 
66 
DOT and the stakeholders on this bill, and we believe we came to a 
reasonable compromise.  And, this is something that will change where we’re 
at today, and also this will help the cost of our roads, which is also important. 
 
 
So, with that being said, Mr. Chairman, I hope the board -- or, 
the Committee -- will pass this.  If there’s any questions, I would be happy to 
answer anything from any of the Committee. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any questions for Assemblyman 
Karabinchak?  (no response) 
 
 
You convinced them all.  Thank you, Assemblyman.  Thanks for 
your hard work on this legislation. 
 
 
Matt Halpin, New Jersey Society of Municipal Engineers -- you 
say in favor with amendments, but no need to testify. 
 
 
Matt, are you here? 
M A T T H E W   H A L P I N:  (indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR 
SMITH: 
 
So, 
the 
comment 
about 
“with 
amendments” we should ignore? 
 
 
MR. HALPIN:  Right. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, hereby ignored. 
 
 
Kevin Monaco, New Jersey Asphalt Pavement Association -- in 
favor. 
 
 
Kevin. 
K E V I N   M O N A C O:  Mr. Chairman, we have submitted written 
comments, and, after hearing the sponsor explain it so well, we-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  He was so eloquent, there’s no need for 
any-- 
 
 
MR. MONACO:  There’s no need to testify at this point. 
 
 
 
67 
 
 
Thanks. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, you’re on record in favor. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Those are all of the slips. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KARABINCHAK:  And, Mr. Chairman, one 
last thing -- yes, this does have amendments.  You have the amendments that 
I should have said right in the beginning. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, you mean they’ve been done? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KARABINCHAK: They’ve already been done, 
yes.  Nothing to change. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Do you want me to describe them? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, if you wouldn’t mind describing them 
for the Committee, that would be great. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  OK, the amendments would provide that 
Section 1 of the bill would apply to the DOT in addition to local contracting 
units; provide that Section 1 of the bill would apply to public highway 
projects in addition to local road projects; and add a definition of public 
highway project; modify the percentage of recycled materials and recycled 
asphalt pavement that can be used, pursuant to Section 1 of the bill; establish 
certain conditions on the use of recycled materials, pursuant to Section 1 of 
the bill; provide that Subsection B in Section 1 of the bill, which allows for 
greater percentages of recycled asphalt pavement and local road projects, 
applies only to projects that do not receive state funding; removes Section 2 
of the bill; add a new Section 2 of the bill, which concerns the percentage of 
recycled asphalt pavement that must be authorized for certain low-volume 
road projects; provide that the bill would go into effect six months after the 
 
 
 
68 
date of enactment, rather than immediately; and, make other technical and 
clarifying changes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  With those amendments, motion to release 
by Senator Stanfield; second by Senator Greenstein. 
 
 
Let’s take a roll call. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  On the motion to release Senate Bill 3255 with 
Committee amendments. 
 
 
Senator Stanfield. 
 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  Yes. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Durr. 
 
 
SENATOR DURR:  Yes. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  Senator Singleton left a yes vote. 
 
 
Senator Greenstein. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes. 
 
 
MR. HANSEN:  And, Chairman Smith. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
 
The bill is released unanimously. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN 
KARABINCHAK: 
 
Thank 
you, 
Mr. 
Chairman; thank you Committee. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, our last item of business today -- and 
the one that has received the most comments and input -- is our PFAS bill. 
 
 
The bill is -- and, it’s for discussion only -- it is S3177 by Senator 
Greenstein and myself.  Protecting Against Forever Chemicals Act -- that’s 
the title -- establishes requirements, prohibitions, and programs for the 
regulation of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, commonly 
referred to as PFAS. 
 
 
 
69 
 
 
Now, give me 30 seconds to talk to Senator Greenstein, and we’ll 
get this started. 
 
 
The way in which we’re going to handle this is to have an opening 
statement from Senator Greenstein about this very, very important 
legislation, and then I am going to turn the hearing over to her to run it.  I 
don’t know if you notice, but I now can see.  I had two cataract surgeries this 
month, and today is the day I’m supposed to go back to the eye doctor, who 
is going to say, “My God, your vision is wonderful.” 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
And, it’s a very good thing for a lawyer to be able to read 
contracts. 
 
 
So, the good news is we’re going to have this very important 
hearing go forward under the leadership of Senator Greenstein.  One 
comment before she gets started is I hope you’re watching what’s going on 
around the country.  We just had the first settlement on PFAS issues -- it’s 
called the Stuart Florida case, and there are hundreds and hundreds of 
millions of dollars that are being paid by 3M and others because of the cost 
of the water treatment that’s anticipated in their water systems.  By settling 
on the courthouse steps, none of the issues had to go forward in the litigation. 
 
 
But ask yourself the questions:  Why are the manufacturers of 
these chemicals willing to pay hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of 
millions of dollars if there’s not a big problem?  Ask yourself the question 
why the EPA has now issued standards, and the standards have gotten lower, 
and lower, and lower.  I think it’s now at six parts per trillion, does that sound 
about right?  But, it’s -- this is a really serious matter, and I know we’ve 
received a lot of letters saying, “Don’t do anything, you’ll kill the world, the 
 
 
 
70 
economy will die, my company will go out of business.”  Well, how about 
your sons and daughters?  And yourself?  Have you looked at whether you 
have PFAS in your water supplies? 
 
 
So, it’s unbelievably serious and very important, and Senator 
Greenstein should be applauded for taking the bull by the horns -- and, this 
is a bull -- and you’re going to take the hearing by the horns, too.  So, let me 
turn it over to Senator Greenstein, and I’ll slip out. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you, Chairman.  Good luck 
with the eyes.  They’re kind of important.  (laughter) 
 
 
And, thank you so much for posting this bill for discussion only 
today. 
 
 
I would like to give a brief introduction to the background and 
purpose of Senate Bill 3177.  PFAS are a class of synthetic, manmade 
chemicals, that became popular for their ability to repel water, oil, and grease, 
and resist heat.  Those properties have made PFAS a valuable addition to 
products such as cookware, paint varnishes, nail polish, cleaning products, 
pesticide, shampoo, and firefighting foam.  However, PFAS have been proven 
to pose a serious risk to public health and to the environment.  They’re called 
“forever chemicals” because the chemistry of these compounds prevents them 
from naturally breaking down over time.  That means that once they’re 
introduced to an environment, they’re not going anywhere. 
 
 
That’s why one of our best tools in fighting further 
contamination is to minimize future use of these chemicals.  S3177 first and 
foremost would prohibit the sale of cosmetics, carpets, and fabric treatment 
and food packaging that contain PFAS after two years.  We upped it from 
 
 
 
71 
the original one year, and now it’s two years.  Any cookware containing PFAS 
would need to have a disclosure label on them.  These products were 
intentionally chosen, as they come into direct contact with our bodies and 
our food, running the highest risk of direct contamination. 
 
 
The bill will also require manufacturers to report information on 
products containing PFAS to the New Jersey DEP, including a description of 
the product and the amount of PFAS in the product.  We’ve heard across the 
board the concern that one year is not enough time, and that’s the reason -- 
for reporting, that is -- that’s the reason we’ve doubled that amount of time.  
At the feedback of other stakeholders, we’ve also proposed amendments that 
would create exceptions for a host of products regulated by the FDA and 
other Federal processes, including drugs; medical devices, medical equipment, 
and their packaging; insecticides; pesticides; fungicides; and rodenticides -- I 
didn’t even know that was a word, rodenticides.  OK, I learned something. 
 
 
I will ask OLS to read a more complete summary of the draft 
amendments, but I am looking forward to hearing your comments on these 
proposed changes. 
 
 
Before we get started, I just want to reiterate that New Jersey is 
not an outlier in this space.  Many states are turning their attention towards 
PFAS.  A couple of them -- and, we have some of them remotely today -- 
Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New York, and many others have adopted or are 
considering product bans or similar regulation.  The nation is gradually 
learning that this is a critical issue that must be addressed.  I and my 
wonderful staff here have spent the last year meeting with groups to try and 
get a better idea of how this legislation can take shape. 
 
 
 
72 
 
 
Today, S3177 is up for discussion only.  I would like to create a 
continuing dialogue with my colleagues on the Committee and the public a 
chance to weigh in -- and, also, from the many groups who have weighed in. 
 
 
The amendments we’re proposing are a first attempt at 
addressing some of the concerns we’ve heard.  I expect to do a lot more work 
on this bill before it’s voted on and ultimately moves through the Legislature. 
 
 
Thank you all very much. 
 
 
We have many slips of people who want to testify today, but I 
am going to start with the virtual speakers.  The first person I have on the list 
-- I have about six people on the list here -- Tasi Hogan, Director of Advocacy 
from a cosmetic company called Beautycounter.  And, I’ll let her tell you her 
views on the bill. 
 
 
Thank you, Tasi. 
T A S I   H O G A N:  Hello, and good afternoon Chair Smith, Vice Chair 
Greenstein, and members of the Committee. 
 
 
My name is Tasi Hogan, and I am the Director of Advocacy of 
Beautycounter.  Beautycounter, a leader in clean beauty, is thrilled to support 
Senate Bill 3177 -- otherwise known as the Protecting Against Forever 
Chemicals Act -- and we appreciate you taking the time to discuss this 
critically important piece of legislation today. 
 
 
As the Senator mentioned, Senate Bill 3177 would establish 
requirements, prohibitions, and programs for the regulation of per- and 
polyfluoroalkyl substances, otherwise known as PFAS. 
 
 
At Beautycounter, we’ve built a movement across the U.S. and 
Canada for improved transparency and accountability in the personal-care 
products industry, which covers everything from makeup to lotion, 
 
 
 
73 
deodorant, and other cosmetics.  You can find our products online, in Ulta   
-- the country’s largest beauty retailer -- and through a network of over 40,000 
brand advocates.  Our mission is to get safer products into the hands of 
everyone, and we believe that advocating for more health protective 
regulations at the Federal and State levels is an important part of delivering 
on this mission. 
 
 
With millions of products sold across North America and various 
third-party certifications and awards for our thorough approach to safety, we 
have prohibited 2,800 ingredients, including PFAS, from our products.  
PFAS, as you heard, are used in a variety of applications, but are used in the 
personal-care products industry to create products such as long-lasting 
lipstick, long-wear foundation, and waterproof mascara.  Unfortunately, this 
class of chemicals has been linked to numerous health problems and is known 
to pollute drinking water and persist in the environment, which ultimately 
harms ecosystems, wildlife, and people. 
 
 
The Modernization of Cosmetics Regulation Act -- otherwise 
known as MoCRA -- passed last year at the Federal level.  While this bill 
expanded the Food and Drug Administration’s authority over personal-care 
products, the reality is that the industry remains severely underregulated.  As 
an example, MoCRA failed to ban harmful chemicals from personal-care 
products, including PFAS.  While companies like Beautycounter ban PFAS 
from our products, and we continuously work with our partners to increase 
supply-chain transparency, many companies in the beauty industry supply 
chain, such as raw material suppliers and packaging suppliers, are not held 
accountable.  Without stronger regulations, it can be challenging for brands 
to have full accountability for their supply chains. 
 
 
 
74 
 
 
You have the opportunity to help by supporting this important 
piece of legislation, which would protect public health by prohibiting a 
harmful class of chemicals from consumer goods and also increase 
transparency along the supply chain. 
 
 
With the recent valuation of $1 billion, Beautycounter has 
proven that banning classes of harmful chemicals, including PFAS, from 
personal-care products does not hinder the industry’s ability to conduct 
business or deliver on consumer expectations. 
 
 
We appreciate your time today hearing discussion about this 
important bill, and we encourage you to support this PFAS legislation to ban 
this harmful class of chemicals from consumer goods sold in the great state 
of New Jersey once and for all. 
 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much for your 
testimony. 
 
 
Where is your company based?  Where are you right now? 
 
 
MS. HOGAN:  Sure, thank you for that question. 
 
 
We are based in Santa Monica, California.  However, we do have 
brand advocates who are distributors of our product in the State of New 
Jersey. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  You mentioned when we talked 
earlier that one of the products that you can’t do is waterproof mascara.  Does 
not having PFAS in your products prevent you from doing anything else 
besides that? 
 
 
MS. HOGAN:  I mean, you typically see PFAS used for 
waterproof mascara and long-wear foundation.  What we found--  So, we do 
 
 
 
75 
not offer those products; we do not offer waterproof mascara or long-wear 
foundation.  However, our products are still extremely efficacious -- we 
wouldn’t have received a $1 billion valuation if our products did not work. 
 
 
So, I think the important thing here is that our business model 
has proved that you can find alternative ways of formulating incredibly 
effective products while not harming consumers and while not -- while 
ensuring that consumers are not putting a harmful class of chemicals like 
PFAS on their face, on their baby’s skin, on their family’s skin. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  We really appreciate it, thanks. 
 
 
MS. HOGAN:  Thank you, Senator, I appreciate your time. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thanks. 
 
 
The next person who I wanted to call was Gretchen Salter, 
Strategic Advisor from a group called Safer States. 
 
 
And, Gretchen, if you could tell us about the group briefly and 
what it does. 
G R E T C H E N   S A L T E R:  Sure, thank you so much. 
 
 
So, thank you so much for the invitation to speak here today and 
to you, Senator Greenstein, for your leadership in sponsoring this important 
measure. 
 
 
Safer States is an alliance of environmental health organizations 
from across the nation, committed to building a healthier world.  We were 
founded in 2005 by seven state-based groups as a way to unite efforts to 
reform our nation’s broken chemical policy system that allows chemicals like 
PFAS to enter our air, and water, and soil.  And, in 2017, seeing the 
devastation that PFAS was bringing to communities, we joined forces with 
legislators, local groups, environmental justice organizations, and scientists 
 
 
 
76 
to educate policymakers about the dangers of PFAS and the need to eliminate 
it from our products in the environment. 
 
 
So, as folks have said, PFAS is a class of chemicals that’s 
comprised of approximately 12,000 chemicals -- that we know of at this point 
-- and they all have at least one fully fluorinated carbon.  So, this carbon 
fluorine bond is the strongest bond in organic chemistry, and it’s what makes 
PFAS such a problem.  PFAS are persistent in the environment; they are 
highly mobile; and some bio-accumulate in humans.  They have no known 
degradation pathways, meaning that they stay in surface water, ground water, 
wildlife, and people, and are passed down through generations from mother 
to child through umbilical cord blood, and breastfeeding.  These chemicals 
move throughout the globe as a result of human use and end up in areas such 
as the Arctic and remote wildlife areas, and in the open oceans. 
 
 
So, PFAS contamination is widespread, and is going to cost 
taxpayers -- is already costing taxpayers -- billions of dollars to clean up.  So, 
more action needs to be taken now, and states across the country are taking 
action on PFAS to eliminate them from products, and New Jersey really 
should do the same. 
 
 
So, so far, 12 states have eliminated PFAS from food packaging, 
and some of those states have even eliminated PFAS from plastic food 
packaging and not just fiber-based packaging; 12 states have eliminated it 
from firefighting foam; eight states have eliminated PFAS from textiles, 
including carpets and rugs and apparel; and, five states have eliminated it 
from cosmetics.  You’ll hear later from folks in Maine and Minnesota who 
can talk about these laws a little more, but in 2021, the State of Maine passed 
a law requiring disclosure of PFAS in all products and to eliminate all use of 
 
 
 
77 
PFAS and products except those that are currently unavoidable by 2030.  
And, just last month, Minnesota passed the most comprehensive PFAS law 
in the world, banning it from a number of different product categories while 
also requiring disclosure of PFAS and products and banning all non-essential 
uses by 2032. 
 
 
It’s not just states that are taking action -- retailers like Target, 
Home Depot, and Lowe’s have also adopted policies to eliminate PFAS from 
store shelves. 
 
 
And, so, you may hear today that the definition of PFAS used in 
this bill is too broad, or that there’s no way that manufacturers can comply 
with this law.  So, on the first point, the definition of PFAS in this bill is the 
same definition that’s been used in all of the states with PFAS regulation.  It’s 
the most comprehensive definition, and gives your state agency the most 
leeway to regulate these dangerous chemicals. 
 
 
And, as to the second point:  Manufacturers have known that 
PFAS is a problem for years.  The first state PFAS policy was passed in 2018, 
and news reports of PFAS’ ability to cause harm to public health and the 
environment have been prominent features in media for at least the last six 
years.  There are stories nearly every single day talking about new lawsuits 
against PFAS manufacturers; new policies restricting PFAS; and worldwide 
efforts to clean up PFAS pollution.  In fact, 21 states have already filed 
lawsuits against PFAS manufacturers, and more lawsuits are on the way.  This 
bill should not blindside anyone. 
 
 
And, some may claim that there’s no way to know what is in their 
products due to complicated supply chains.  But, we just heard from 
Beautycounter that that’s not true.  And, we really need to ask those who are 
 
 
 
78 
saying that, “Why?  Why don’t they know what’s in their products, and 
shouldn’t they have a responsibility to find out?”  This bill gives them ample 
time to discover if there are PFAS in their products, and, in fact, it’s in line 
with the Maine and Minnesota programs for disclosure. 
 
 
(indiscernible) of 3M -- who was the company that started 
making PFAS in the first place six years ago -- they’ve already made the list 
of products public containing PFAS.  So, this is something that some 
manufacturers are already doing. 
 
 
It’s critical that New Jersey not rely on other states to solve the 
PFAS crisis.  The more states that act, the faster we can address this crisis.  
Moreover, for those states that don’t act, they risk becoming a dumping 
ground for products containing PFAS that can’t be sold elsewhere.  We are 
already seeing this happen as PFAS laws go into effect in early adopter states, 
and those states that don’t act will be the states that receive products 
containing PFAS while states with regulations will get safer products. 
 
 
New Jersey also can’t rely on the Federal government to act.  The 
EPA had evidence of PFAS toxicity for over two decades before they were 
forced to take action.  And, even now, we only have seen minimal efforts to 
address PFAS in consumer products.  Yet again, it is up to the states to protect 
their residents from harm. 
 
 
So, thank you so much for allowing me to speak today.  I urge 
you to keep working on this measure, and we stand ready to assist you in any 
way that we can. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Gretchen, thank you very much for 
your testimony. 
 
 
 
79 
 
 
On the issue of what the Federal government is doing, I realize 
they haven’t always been successful in trying to work on this, and as fast as 
some other issues, but is there anything they’re doing that’s making any 
progress right now? 
 
 
MS. SALTER:  Sure-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Because I know that’s one of the 
things some people say, “Well, let the Federal government do it.” 
 
 
But, I’m not clear how much they’re really doing. 
 
 
MS. SALTER:  Well, if we’re looking at what this bill addresses, 
which is looking really at consumer products and the products that PFAS is 
in, there’s not a lot that’s really happening on the Federal level.  There are 
some measures that are before Congress right now to eliminate PFAS from 
food packaging, and there have been some regulations to eliminate PFAS 
from firefighting foam in very specific situations, certainly, for DOD use. 
 
 
There are also some draft regulations for drinking water levels 
that have been proposed by the EPA, but those have not been finalized. 
 
 
So, there are a few measures here and there, but really what New 
Jersey is trying to do goes far and beyond what the Federal government is 
even considering right now.  And, that is really looking at consumer products; 
looking for disclosure in consumer products; and taking it out of products 
where we can. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Where are you located? 
 
 
MS. SALTER:  I’m sorry, if you’re speaking I can’t hear you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I’m sorry. 
 
 
Where are you located? 
 
 
 
80 
 
 
MS. SALTER:  I am personally located in northern California.  
Safer States is a national organization with our offices based in Portland, 
Oregon. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Well, thank you for getting up early 
today.  (laughter) 
 
 
MS. SALTER:  You’re welcome. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I appreciate it. 
 
 
OK, the next person I’ll call is Dr. Katie Pelch, who is a scientist 
with the National Resources Defense Council. 
 
 
Thank you very much, Katie. 
K A T I E   P E L C H, Ph.D.:  Thank you. 
 
 
Good afternoon, Senator Greenstein and Committee members. 
 
 
Thank you so much for this opportunity to speak with you today. 
 
 
My name is Katie Pelch, and I am a scientist on the NRDC’s 
toxics team, where I work primarily on PFAS. 
 
 
With scientific partners, I have developed a comprehensive 
database of over 1,000 scientific studies on the health and toxicological 
effects that have been linked to PFAS exposure.  I also recently co-authored 
papers detailing the scientific reasoning for why PFAS should be managed as 
a class, and a pilot study exploring the utility of measuring additional PFAS 
in drinking water beyond those that are currently monitored for by EPA. 
 
 
In that study, we found that EPA’s methods significantly 
underestimate the PFAS burden in drinking water for many communities 
across the U.S.  And, this just further highlights the need for regulatory 
actions that address the entire class of PFAS. 
 
 
 
81 
 
 
As we already heard, the class of PFAS represents thousands of 
chemicals, and these are defined by the presence of at least one fully 
fluorinated carbon atom.  This definition is not only the most comprehensive, 
as Gretchen just pointed out, but it is also scientifically defensible.  Scientists 
agree that the carbon-fluorine bond is one of the strongest covalent bonds in 
organic chemistry, and it is what confers the hazard property of persistent 
PFAS. 
 
 
NRDC supports strong action on all PFAS, which now constitute 
a major global, environmental, and public health threat.  This is because 
PFAS are extremely persistent, meaning they are very resistant to breakdown.  
They tend to be highly mobile, spreading quickly in the environment, making 
their contamination hard to control and clean up.  PFAS can bioaccumulate, 
or build up in plants, animals, and humans.  In fact, national bio-monitoring 
shows that virtually all people living in the U.S. have PFAS in their bodies.  
PFAS have also been linked to serious health effects, such as cancer, kidney 
and liver damage, and immune system and developmental toxicity -- which 
we heard about from the Chair. 
 
 
And, PFAS are likely to impose massive health-care and cleanup 
costs.  The current “one-chemical-at-a-time” approach has not been effective 
at controlling widespread exposure to PFAS, as other PFAS has just been 
rushed in to replace any banned or regulated chemicals.  And, so, the 
magnitude of the problem demands a more efficient and effective approach, 
which is why prominent scientists from around the world have urged their 
class-based approach for managing PFAS -- including a phase-out of all non-
essential uses of PFAS. 
 
 
 
82 
 
 
The European Chemicals Agency and the states of Maine and 
Minnesota -- who you will hear from momentarily -- have already proposed a 
ban on all non-essential uses of all PFAS, and more than 10 other states have 
banned the unnecessary use of all PFAS in specific product categories, 
including textiles, firefighting foam, food packaging, juvenile products, and 
cosmetics. 
 
 
And, earlier this year, scientists from NRDC were part of a 
scientific collaboration that published a paper on this alternative approach to 
managing hazardous chemicals, which is known as the “essential use 
approach.”  It posits chemicals of concern like PFAS should not be used in 
products or processes where any of the following are true:  First -- or, one -- 
they’re being used for non-essential functions within products; two, their use 
in a product is not critical for the health, safety, or functioning of society; or, 
three, when there are safer alternatives. 
 
 
Now, the goal of this approach is to discontinue the use of toxic 
chemicals when they’re not needed.  The bill that we’re discussing here today 
has already correctly identified several uses of PFAS that are non-essential, 
and therefore can be immediately discontinued:  cosmetics, carpets, and 
fabric treatments and food packing.  The agency should use this framework 
in suggesting to the Legislature additional uses of PFAS and products that are 
non-essential. 
 
 
And, so, the two policy approaches -- managing PFAS as a class, 
and eliminating unnecessary use of PFAS -- are what is needed to respond to 
the magnitude and urgency of this crisis.  These approaches, together with 
the other actions that were outlined in the Protecting Against Forever 
Chemicals Act, including reporting all intentional uses of PFAS; additional 
 
 
 
83 
funding for research and monitoring of PFAS in the environment; and the 
establishment of a source reduction program will help protect our children 
and our communities from these toxic forever chemicals. 
 
 
So, we look forward to working with you further on this bill. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much for your 
testimony. 
 
 
Where are you located?  Are you California? 
 
 
DR. PELCH:  Yes -- I am actually located in Idaho, but NRDC 
is also a national organization with offices across the U.S. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  OK, thanks. 
 
 
Any questions, comments?  (no response) 
 
 
Thank you very much.  I really appreciate it, thank you. 
 
 
Adam, are you there -- Adam Nordell? 
 
 
Hi. 
A D A M   N O R D E L L:  Hello, good afternoon. 
 
 
Nice to see you all, and thank you for considering this bill -- this 
very important bill. 
 
 
Good morning Senator Smith, Senator Greenstein, and 
distinguished members of the Environment and Energy Committee. 
 
 
My name is Adam Nordell, I am a Campaign Manager for the 
environmental nonprofit Defend Our Health, and a PFAS-impacted farmer 
in Maine.  I submit this testimony in support of Bill S3177. 
 
 
How we regulate chemicals in products has a very real impact on 
consumers, and on communities near production and disposal sites.  For most 
of the past 13 years, my wife and I ran a farm here in Maine.  We built a 
 
 
 
84 
successful small business growing fresh, organic produce, and selling it across 
the state.  We started a family on the farm, and (indiscernible) to raise our 
child connected to the land and familiar with how food grows.  Then, we were 
startled and terrified last winter to learn that our farm had been spread with 
municipal wastewater-treatment sludge from the early 1990s. 
 
 
Subsequent testing revealed that our drinking water was 
contaminated more than 400 times the interim drinking water standard for 
PFAS, which is 20 parts per trillion.  After drinking that water and working 
that contaminated soil for seven years, my family has industrial-level 
exposure to the chemicals.  The National Academies of Science, Engineering, 
and Medicine recently identified a host of illnesses, including kidney cancer, 
that are linked with PFAS exposure above 20 parts per billion.  My own blood 
serum tested at 3,547 parts per billion -- 177 times the elevated risk threshold 
identified by the National Academies. 
 
 
The discovery has entirely upended our lives -- our business is 
closed, and the fields are completely fallow.  My wife and I are left with 
significant worries about our health and the health of our child.  The man 
who sold us our farm did so because he was dying from the cancer that we 
now know is linked with PFAS exposure. 
 
 
The State of Maine has identified more than 385 drinking water 
wells, and 25 school water supplies, contaminated with PFAS above our safe 
drinking water threshold.  More than 6,000 current students at those schools 
have been exposed to contaminated drinking water.  In response to this 
ballooning public health crisis, the State of Maine has appropriated more 
than $100 million to support impacted communities with water filtration; 
financial aid for farmers; and resources to deal with the health impacts. 
 
 
 
85 
 
 
It would be foolish to throw that much money at a problem when 
the tub is still overflowing, and, so, our legislature has also moved to turn off 
the PFAS tap all the way upstream.  Maine’s LB1503 was enacted 
(indiscernible) all manufacturers of products containing intentionally added 
PFAS to report those uses to our Department of Environmental Protection’s 
Safer Chemicals Program.  Products with intentionally added PFAS will be 
banned from sale in Maine by 2030.  The Safer Chemicals Division--  We 
used the exposure data to determine which PFAS product uses are currently 
unavoidable, and those products will be exempted from the ban.  This year, 
we amended the bill in partnership with the Maine Chamber of Commerce 
to allow for more time for the disclosure requirement, and to exempt certain 
small businesses from having to disclose on behalf of (indiscernible) suppliers. 
 
 
This bill is a success, and will help to protect Maine communities 
like mine from being additionally exposed to PFAS.  The toxins in our 
products wind up in our waste stream, and our waste stream impacts our 
water, our air, and our food. 
 
 
Maine’s contamination is not unique.  Almost all states have 
agricultural sludge-spreading programs without regulatory thresholds for 
PFAS.  I recently saw an ABC news story listing New Jersey as the state with 
the second-most PFAS-impacted drinking water.  Across the country, the 
spigot is wide open right now, but we know enough to make better regulatory 
decisions. 
 
 
Let’s move away from PFAS as a class. 
 
 
Thank you so much, and I’m happy to answer any questions. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much, we really 
appreciate it. 
 
 
 
86 
 
 
Any questions?  (no response) 
 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
 
MR. NORDELL:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Congratulations on your bill. 
 
 
OK, and the last person I have here is Avonna Starck -- Clean 
Water Action, Minnesota. 
A V O N N A   S T A R C K:  Hello, Senator Greenstein, and Environment 
and Energy Committee members. 
 
 
My name is Avonna Starck, and I am the State Director of Clean 
Water Action Minnesota. 
 
 
Clean Water Action does, proudly, have a New Jersey office as 
well.  We are focused on ensuring that everyone has access to clean, drinkable, 
swimmable, and fishable water. 
 
 
And, I am here in support of Senate Bill 3177, and to explain 
that comprehensive action on PFAS can happen in New Jersey, as it has 
happened in Minnesota. 
 
 
Our legislative session wrapped up recently, and we had a robust 
and successful conversation regarding PFAS, resulting in the most 
comprehensive legislation in the nation.  And, as Gretchen and I have talked 
to probably the world addressing the need to turn off the tap of these toxic 
chemicals, preventing them from flowing into our water. 
 
 
Minnesota is the origin story of PFAS, since we’re the home of 
3M, where PFAS was developed.  We’re also home to a massive PFAS plume 
due to 3M dumping the chemical in the 1970s.  My community has seen 
firsthand the devastation this chemical creates, and I applaud you for taking 
action. 
 
 
 
87 
 
 
Minnesota’s legislation has three main components:  A total ban 
on 11 consumer items beginning in 2025 -- these items include cookware; 
carpet and rugs; cooking products; fabric treatments; dental floss; period 
products; juvenile products; textile furnishings; ski wax; upholstered 
furniture; and cosmetics.  And, as Gretchen said, the Municipal Pollution 
Control Agency will determine what other items are non-essential via the 
rule-making process, and, thus, those items will be banned beginning in 2032. 
 
 
The legislation also phases out PFAS in firefighting foam, and 
creates a requirement for industry to disclose to the MPCA if items sold in 
Minnesota contain PFAS.  Items deemed essential for the health and safety 
of society are exempt from this bill, and that’s determined through the rule-
making process as well.  So, do not let industries fearmonger you and tell you 
that cars won’t run; airplanes will fall from the sky; and that MRI machines 
won’t work -- that’s just not true. 
 
 
Because of the Chemical Clearinghouse website that multiple 
states already use to disclose these chemicals and products, the companies 
are already disclosing the PFAS in other states, so this should not be a heavy 
lift to report in New Jersey. 
 
 
Minnesota has a PFAS blueprint, and that addresses prevention 
of PFAS pollution; the management of PFAS where prevention is not feasible; 
and, finally, how to clean up contaminated sites.  This week, the MPCA 
announced that cleanup will cost the state anywhere between $14-28 billion 
-- that’s with a “B” -- dollars over the next 20 years.  The MPCA also stated 
that PFAS can be purchased for between $50-1,000 a pound, but for cleanup, 
that cost comes between $2.7 million and $10 million per pound, to clean up 
 
 
 
88 
and remove and destroy from municipal wastewater.  So, there’s a big price 
disparity there. 
 
 
Minnesota defines PFAS as a class of fluorinated organic 
chemicals containing at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.  Industry will 
tell you that the definition of PFAS should be expanded to be defined as two 
fluorinated carbons, despite every other state defining PFAS as one 
fluorinated carbon atom.  This is a tactic they’re using to sell more toxic 
products in your state.  They will ask you to exempt HFOs -- which are a type 
of PFAS -- and the fact is HFOs are PFAS, and all PFAS that have been 
studied have been linked to negative health outcomes.  This is also an 
approach by industry to sell more products and protect profit over people. 
 
 
The Sustainable PFAS Action Network -- or SPAN -- flew into 
Minnesota after they had been unsuccessful in Maine at killing their PFAS 
bill, in an attempt to offer poison-pill amendments to our bill.  This is what 
they do -- fly in on industry’s dime around the country and attempt to protect 
corporate profits.  They will argue for internal components of items to be 
exempt -- Whirlpool did this.  An appliance repair technician offered 
testimony on our bill, and he said, I quote, “As a business owner and full-
time employee, I’m working double duty to help provide for my family.  I 
take side jobs after work hours and on the weekends.  I do this to be able to 
afford a nice house in a safe neighborhood and to save for my children’s 
future.  But, now, I’m learning to redefine ‘safe.’  Safe doesn’t only mean 
freedom from crime, poverty, access to food, or medical care.  Now, I have to 
add toxic chemicals to the list of things that threaten my family’s safety.” 
 
 
This appliance tech spends all day working on the internal 
components of appliances -- the same components industry argues should be 
 
 
 
89 
exempt from PFAS bans.  And, remember that components of items that you 
don’t normally come into contact with still end up in landfills, which can 
leach into the groundwater. 
 
 
The process of PFAS being banned around the world has begun.  
For American companies to remain competitive in the global marketplace, we 
must take action, or we risk having no one to do business with or sell our 
products to. 
 
 
And, please remember that internal documents have been 
released, 
proving 
that 
industry 
knew 
PFAS 
was 
dangerous 
and 
bioaccumulated in the blood as early as the 1950s.  These documents, 
obtained from industry memos and studies, build the case that industry knew 
for decades that these chemicals were linked to terrible illnesses suffered by 
those exposed.  And, yet, industry continued to manufacture and sell 
products with PFAS.  They knew it was dangerous. 
 
 
This legislation would save your taxpayers millions of dollars by 
turning off the tap of new PFAS entering your environment, which then, of 
course, results in costly cleanup.  It will save New Jersey families money on 
health-care costs, which racks up real quickly when somebody you love gets 
sick.  And, this legislation, most importantly, would save lives.  It’s the right 
step to take to protect New Jersey. 
 
 
Thank you, and I’m here for questions. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much, and 
congratulations on your bill. 
 
 
Any questions?  (no response) 
 
 
We don’t have any, but thank you, we’ll be in touch I’m sure. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
90 
 
 
OK, so we’re now finished with the remote testimony, so now I 
will go to in-house testimony here. 
 
 
OK, first I will call Ben Graziano and Nicholas Georges -- 
Chemistry Council of New Jersey and the Household Commercial Products 
Association.  It says seeking amendments.  Now, many people are, so I’m 
going to ask you to just tell us very briefly what the amendments are and then 
we’ll ask for copies eventually. 
B E N E D E T T O   A.   G R A Z I A N O:  Absolutely. 
 
 
Good afternoon, now.  Ben Graziano, I’m the Policy Director for 
the Chemistry Council of New Jersey.  I am joined by Nicholas Georges, he 
is a chemist and the Vice President of Scientific and International Affairs for 
the Household and Commercial Products Association. 
 
 
First of all, we’d like to thank the Senator for the work she’s done 
on the amendments that have already been provided.  These amendments 
include some very reasonable exemptions, one being the Federally regulated 
pesticides, and we’re very appreciative of the extensive dialogue that we’ve 
had moving forward, and looking forward to the future dialogue. 
 
 
You heard a little bit of testimony, briefly, and one of the 
amendments we were going to seek is changing the definition of what is a 
PFAS to two fully fluorinated atoms.  Delaware actually uses this definition, 
so the comments that they said no other states have done that is inaccurate.
 
 
We believe it’s possible for the bill to achieve its intended goal.  
So, we think that by moving towards these reasonable changes and others 
that are going to be proposed -- and the others we’re going to mention today 
-- we can do that.  I think it’s something that you can do; I feel that some of 
the information that has already been provided may kind of paint a different 
 
 
 
91 
picture than what we’re going to speak about, and I’m going to, at this time, 
transfer it over to Nicholas here who has a little bit more expertise in the area 
and can speak more eloquently than I can. 
N I C H O L A S   G E O R G E S:  Oh, I don’t know about that, but thank 
you. 
 
 
Thank you all for having me today, I greatly appreciate it; I 
appreciate this opportunity.  And, thank you for the (indiscernible) 
exemption, or the consideration of it. 
 
 
Echoing the definitional concern, there are compounds within 
the class of PFAS that meet the definition of one fully fluorinated component 
that degrade within days within the atmosphere.  If we’re talking about going 
after the forever chemicals, we support that.  We’re looking at various issues 
from a toxicological sampling – bioaccumulation, yes, we want to address 
that. 
 
 
My members are moving away from PFAS substance no matter 
what you decide to do here today.  The branding of PFAS has made it so that 
consumer-based products want to get out of the substances as fast as they can 
because the (indiscernible) just aren’t good -- period, end of story. 
 
 
So, we’re not saying, “Don’t do anything here today.”  
Understand that companies are already taking that action. 
 
 
About the definition piece, though, there are compounds -- and, 
you’ll hear about them later on today; primarily, HFOs have already been 
mentioned here -- that are critical to our industry.  Later this summer, your 
Department of Environmental Protection is going to undergo a rulemaking 
to strengthen your VOC regulations.  My association goes state to state to 
support that action, because we worked on the model rules to make it happen.  
 
 
 
92 
The model rules make it so that you can make reductions on VOC emissions 
without impeding interstate commerce -- therefore, we support that, because 
everybody is working off the same framework and we have the harmonization 
that we need to be able to do business there.  Those compounds allow us to 
do that. 
 
 
Historically, we have been using higher global-warming potential 
items to comply with the VOC regulations to reduce our impacts on air 
quality.  Obviously, we now know the issues with global warming potential, 
therefore, we are shifting to the next generation of materials to be able to 
continue to make those gains on air quality while reducing our impacts on 
climate change.  So, that’s not to say that--  Again, we don’t regulate by a 
class; I’m not saying that.  But, you have a little more targeted (indiscernible) 
molecular formula here of one carbon that’s fully fluorinated. 
 
 
Beyond that, we also want to thank you for the extension of the 
two years for the reporting deadline.  Our members are ready to comply with 
that, from what we know is intentionally added into the ingredients.  You’ve 
heard from some of the previous presenters today, “Do you know what’s in 
our product?”  The challenge isn’t what is intentionally added, the challenge 
is what is not intentionally in there.  Is it coming from the water system? Is 
it coming from manufacturing processes that are so small in there that--  
Yesterday’s analytical techniques were not able to measure it, but tomorrow’s 
are, and that’s the concern there is -- how do we report something that we 
can’t test for today? 
 
 
And, that’s also something that I want to talk about, is from 
testing standpoint, the science isn’t there yet; it’s still developing.  We’re 
seeing it play out in the media right now, the debate between academics and 
 
 
 
93 
EPA on how do you test these things?  Using the same analytical 
instrumentation but different sample preparation.  EPA came out with a 
report earlier -- or, last week now --  discussing how their sample preparation 
resulted in not being able to detect PFAS, whereas a more, I’ll say simpler 
methodology that was based on solvent and water extraction, shared that they 
did find PFAS.  Now, that’s not to say that one is right, one is wrong; and, 
EPA is not claiming that the academics necessarily did anything wrong there.  
But, it’s showing that not just the instrumentation but sample preparation 
has to be taken into account.  We need to have validated methodologies for 
all of these things, and it’s not just going to be one solution across every 
spectrum.  It’s going to take time for the testing, and that’s something we 
want to convey here. 
 
 
So, with that, I’m happy to take any questions. 
 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Any questions? 
 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  Yes, I just want to stress that we’re just 
concerned that the current language as-is could limit access to certain 
products.  And, many of these products could have positive environmental 
impacts as opposed to the negative ones that have been spoken about. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  If you could get us (indiscernible), 
I know (indiscernible)  Are there any specific concerns? 
 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  We do have written testimony that we will 
be providing the Committee members and staff. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And, we know we (indiscernible) in 
addition, we did take at least one of your big suggestions, besides the ones 
you talked about. 
 
 
 
94 
 
 
MR. GRAZIANO:  Absolutely, we recognize that your work with 
some of these amendments -- the two year, the extension, the (indiscernible) 
exemption, as well as the pharmaceutical, have all been--  We really 
appreciate it, ma’am. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you, thank you. 
 
 
The next person is Mike Egenton, Ray Cantor, Hilary Chebra, 
Mary Ellen Peppard -- any or all of those people -- for the Food Council, BIA, 
State Chamber of Commerce, and Southern New Jersey Chamber of 
Commerce.  
 
 
And, they are seeking amendments, so if you could briefly tell us 
what those are. 
M A R Y   E L L E N   P E P P A R D:  Mary Ellen Peppard with the New 
Jersey Food Council. 
 
 
Thank you so much, Senator, and I really appreciate your work 
and your staff’s work and the conversations we’ve had so far on this bill. 
 
 
I’ll just--  For the other Committee members that may not be 
aware, that we haven’t had conversations with yet, the food manufacturers 
are in the process of transitioning out of -- intentionally -- out of PFAS, and 
testing alternative packaging. 
 
 
And, we are seeking amendments that would clarify certain 
provisions and mitigate some of the other requirements, which my members 
have said just aren’t feasible, unfortunately, to implement. 
 
 
One of the main concerns that we have is with the notification 
requirements.  We certainly appreciate the extension, the one-year extension 
for the timeframe.  But, my members have indicated that the requirements 
 
 
 
95 
pertaining to the submission of the exact quantity of PFAS -- this is very 
difficult.  Often, food manufacturers don’t actually manufacture the 
packaging as well.  In some cases they do, but, in a lot of cases, the food is 
manufactured separately than the packaging.  And, in these cases, they don’t 
have access -- the food manufacturers don’t have access, the brand owners, to 
the quantity amounts.  
 
 
And, I also understand that not all substances -- not all 
substances have chemical abstract registry numbers, so that would obviously 
be a significant challenge.  There doesn’t appear to be an adequate number 
of lab facilities to test for every single product for every company.  But, I 
would like to reiterate that our members are, at least with testing and 
transitioning to alternative packaging.  But, it does take a long time -- in some 
cases, it does take years, because, as with all sort of food packaging, 
challenges, and issues, once you find an alternative package that works for 
one product, it doesn’t necessarily mean it will work and be durable and 
appropriate for food safety for another product. 
 
 
One of the other areas of concern -- or we would be seeking more 
clarification -- would be about the scope of the packaging ban, and some of 
the definitions.  One of the definitions that I think we’re struggling with in 
terms of intentionally added, and it talks about the degradation of 
byproducts, so we’re not really clear on what that means in terms of the scope 
of packaging; we’re not sure about secondary and tertiary packaging, or 
whether it’s just food-contact packaging.  So, we would love to have some 
more clarification on those pieces. 
 
 
And, then, one of the other areas we would like to request is a 
“sell-through” period for products that are already in inventory, upon the 
 
 
 
96 
effective date of the bill.  Because what we would hate to see happen is 
products have to be pulled from the shelves and discarded -- obviously that’s 
food waste, that’s packaging waste. 
 
 
And, then, the final area, I’ll just touch on, is the registration 
fees.  And, we think, but we would like to request confirmation, that the 
thousand-dollar registration fee is per manufacturer, not per product.  Many 
manufacturers may produce hundreds of thousands of products. 
 
 
One of the amendments allowing DEP to modify the amount of 
the fees -- we would request removal of that amendment, because it would be 
challenging if the manufacturers just don’t know what those costs are going 
to be. 
 
 
And, I’ll just end on saying that I certainly appreciate your 
deliberation, Senator, on this bill and taking your time to have these 
discussions.  I think one of the other witnesses talked about Maine had 
enacted some PFAS legislation last year.  They are in the process of finalizing 
some clean-up bills, because they don’t feel that they got it right the first 
time.  DEP -- the main DEP had to issue over 2,400 extensions to companies 
that couldn’t meet the reporting requirements. 
 
 
So, I think these are just things to sort of keep in mind as we 
progress with our bill. 
 
 
And, thank you again. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  One of the things that I remember 
from our earliest discussion -- you had a few people from your group on there 
-- was the fact, not only that you said you’re really trying to do away with 
PFAS in your packaging products, as you said today, but also that the only 
product that it was still in was microwave popcorn for some reason. 
 
 
 
97 
 
 
Is that true that it’s pretty much out of most products at this 
point? 
 
 
MS. PEPPARD:  I think it is out of most products.  I don’t want 
to say for sure it’s only microwave popcorn.  I think pizza boxes possibly as 
well. 
 
 
But, I think part of it would depend on what that scope looks 
like.  For example, I think one of the areas that we talked about -- and, this 
is where our brand owners don’t have sort of control over this -- if you’re 
talking about, for example, the equipment and the processing and there may 
be lubricants used, and plastic packaging to prevent the product -- the 
packaging from sticking during the manufacture, it’s sort of -- that doesn’t 
come into direct contact with the food, like, what does that sort of -- is that 
captured under the bill? 
 
 
And, I don’t know that that’s clear.  So, I think it’s not 
intentionally added into the final product.  And, certainly, I think almost all 
products -- is my understanding. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I do feel, given that you have 
worked so hard to get it out of so many of your products, that it may not 
actually be too difficult to come to an agreement on that -- some kind of an 
agreement. 
 
 
So, we’ll have to talk again and see where you are with the bill, 
and what you’re specifically looking for.  But, it does seem like you have made 
a lot of progress in getting rid of that chemical -- the chemicals -- which I 
think is good and commendable. 
 
 
MS. PEPPARD:  Thank you so much. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Who wants to be next? 
 
 
 
98 
M I C H A E L   E G E N T O N:  I’ll go. 
 
 
Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. 
 
 
Mike Egenton, New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce. 
 
 
I’ll also reiterate just some quick points that Mary Ellen pointed 
out, but also point out I want to thank you for the work that you’ve been 
doing, working with the various stakeholders.  I know we’re all part of a 
coalition working collaboratively with the members, and our friends and 
colleagues at the Chemistry Council are trying to find some solutions, and 
thank you for the changes that you’ve made. 
 
 
Just to reiterate, one of the things--  Mary Ellen pointed out the 
products, getting some clarification on it.  I know if Chairman Smith was 
here, any issue that lately we’ve seen before the Senate Environment 
Committee always comes to, “How is DEP going to manage this?”  and “Do 
they have enough staff?” and so on.  You know, the stress factor.  And, trust 
me, I know how much DEP and BPU and the other agencies are dealing with 
these days, so that’s something to think about it. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I do want to say, although the 
Commissioner couldn’t make it here today, they are, in general, supportive 
of the bill-- 
 
 
MR. EGENTON:  Right. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  --and think that it is something they 
can do. 
 
 
They work mostly on the water aspect of PFAS, and the pollution 
there, but they understand this one is about consumer products, and they 
seem like -- I won’t put words in their mouths -- but they seem like they’re 
supportive of it. 
 
 
 
99 
 
 
MR. EGENTON:  No, look -- respectfully, I get that. 
 
 
It’s just that, in totality, as we look at all these different issues -- 
air, water, site remediation, solid waste, everything -- the Department is 
challenged with meeting deadlines on a litany of issues.  This is something I 
wanted to point out. 
 
 
Being the State Chamber of Commerce, I am always concerned 
about, how does this define and play out when you talk about companies in 
general?  They have a lot of proprietary, sensitive information in their 
processes and everything, and our concern would be how much and what 
specifically, information, would they have to disclose, be out there and 
everything.  I mean, this goes back to the beginnings of manufacturing that 
started in Paterson, New Jersey, about Macy’s versus Gimbels and the like.  
So, these are things that the private sector is always interested in. 
 
 
Just to wrap it up, we want to continue to work with you.  Again, 
we appreciate the changes you’ve made.  Please give a continuing ear to our 
friends at the Chemistry Council.  They brought a lot of people here today 
also from out of state as well.  And, I know you gave some time to some folks 
virtually, and they’re still here, so please give them the attention that they 
well deserve. 
 
 
Thank you, Madam Chair. 
H I L A R Y   C H E B R A:  Thank you, Madam Chairwoman. 
 
 
Hilary Chebra, Government Affairs for the Chamber of 
Commerce Southern New Jersey. 
 
 
I want to echo a lot of the comments that my colleagues made as 
well -- my colleagues from the Chemistry Council.  We are seeking 
amendments; we are seeking that change for the definition of PFAS, and we 
 
 
 
100 
do appreciate the amendments that you’ve already made and your willingness 
to work with all of the stakeholders on this legislation. 
 
 
Because, as we’ve heard before from previous testimony and folks 
at this table, other states that have done this have had to go back and revisit 
and a lot of exemptions were having to be made in Maine for the reporting 
requirements, as well as exemptions for small businesses.  So, we want to keep 
those in mind and keep that in mind as we go forward with these 
conversations. 
 
 
We appreciate that this is for discussion only, and that you’ve 
been very open to continuing this as we move forward.  As my colleague, 
Mike, said, we want to ensure that there’s language to protect intellectual 
property and trade secrets.  Like you said, this goes all the way back to early 
manufacturing, and we want to make sure that those are protected. 
 
 
So, I appreciate your willingness to continue the dialogue. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN: Thank you. Thanks. 
 
 
Ray? 
R A Y M O N D   C A N T O R, ESQ.:  And, thank you, Madam Chair. 
 
 
My name is Ray Cantor, I am with the New Jersey Business and 
Industry Association. 
 
 
First, I do want to thank you for the changes that you’ve made 
so far, and for working with us.  We appreciate that this bill is up for 
discussion only today, and that we have more time to work our amendments. 
 
 
Having said that, we have concerns with this type of legislation 
moving forward.  I don’t want to talk specifically--  OK, we support what was 
said, we support the Chemistry Council’s amendments.  I just want to talk 
just in general about what happens when the Legislature enacts broad 
 
 
 
101 
legislation with potentially unrealistic deadlines and burdens on a 
department that can’t be met. 
 
 
By the way, I’ll just mention that four years ago, we passed -- or, 
you passed -- legislation on public access.  Those regs aren’t even proposed 
yet.  So, I get that the Commissioner may be generally supportive; there is 
limited capacity over there to do certain things. 
 
 
But, again, there are impacts of all the laws that the Legislature 
passed, no matter how well-intended.  And this bill, particularly, impacts the 
manufacturing industry. 
 
 
I just want to talk about manufacturing for a second.  New Jersey 
Business and Industry Association was founded on manufacturers.  It’s what 
we’re all about; what we’ve been about for over 100 years.  Mike mentioned 
Paterson, New Jersey.  New Jersey is the birthplace of manufacturing in the 
United States.  As a matter of fact, it was still significant in the state:  9.47% 
of our state’s output comes from manufacturing, and 6.2% of our workforce 
equates to $60.5 billion in total output.  The average manufacturing job is 
$105,000.  They are a more diverse workforce than other industries, and you 
don’t necessarily need a four-year job (sic) to go in manufacturing.  And, we 
still have 236,000 manufacturing jobs in the state.  We need to be cognizant 
of that, and make sure that we don’t do things that are unnecessary, that may 
not have -- maybe unnecessary to get our intended ends, but by doing things 
that will impact this industry. 
 
 
In 1990, we had over 500,000 jobs -- manufacturing jobs -- in 
New Jersey.  Since then, we have lost 291,000 of those jobs, and a lot of that 
is not just because jobs have gone overseas; it’s because of the actions, the 
laws, the regulations that the Legislature and DEP and other agencies have 
 
 
 
102 
passed.  And, I say that because, again, the nation as a whole has lost 
manufacturing jobs, but nationally, we have lost 1.2% of manufacturing jobs 
per year since 1990.  In New Jersey, we have lost 2.6% of our jobs, 
manufacturing jobs, per year.  So, we’re more than double the national rate 
of losing manufacturing jobs. 
 
 
There’s got to be a reason for that, and I think part of the reason 
is we pass laws that are overly broad, and they never go away.  We could all 
talk about laws that were passed in the ’70s, ’80s, and ’90s that are outdated, 
but the Legislature doesn’t go back and re-look at those laws and pull them 
back. 
 
 
So, again, we would just ask that you be cognizant of the impacts 
on manufacturers, listen to the amendments, and -- again, I don’t want to get 
into science or chemistry -- but just because something is in a product doesn’t 
mean it’s a health impact.  Just because--  Everything is a matter of dose and 
ingestion, not a matter of what people from out of state claim are health 
concerns. 
 
 
So, we thank you for working with us, and we look forward to 
continued dialogue. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
 
And, I would ask if -- it does say here, “Seeking amendments.”  
If you could submit any additional ideas or amendments in writing, that 
would be terrific. 
 
 
Does anyone have any questions here? 
 
 
MR. EGENTON:  Madam Chair, just to that point, to make it 
easy -- as I said, we’re all in a coalition working-- 
 
 
 
103 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  You can submit one set, but just tell 
me what it’s for-- 
 
 
MR. EGENTON:  We’re all on the same page, right-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes. 
 
 
MR. EGENTON:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  OK, thanks. 
 
 
Now, I’m going to have to do what I don’t like to do, but I have 
to do:  put a time limit on, because we still have a lot of people.  So, I’m just 
going to call on people, and I would say three minutes a person.  We’ll see 
how it goes. 
 
 
OK, here I have Atashi Bell from Honeywell, seeking 
amendments. 
 
 
Atashi Bell, thank you. 
 
 
And, what I’m going to ask you, since we have three minutes 
here, just let me know what the amendments are that you’re seeking, that 
would be great. 
A T A S H I   B E L L, Ph.D:  Thank you guys so much. 
 
 
So, first off, thank you to this Committee for this opportunity to 
testify today. 
 
 
I am Atashi Bell with Honeywell.  I have a Material Science 
Ph.D., so I am a trained scientist but also a regulatory professional, but I also 
work in our Government Relations shop. 
 
 
As a company, Honeywell is very deeply rooted in the safety of 
our customers as well as our employees, their families, and the communities 
in which we function.  As such, we strongly support New Jersey’s efforts 
through S3177 to establish a source-reduction program specifically for PFAS 
 
 
 
104 
materials that, through risk assessments, have shown to have negative 
impacts on human health and the environment.  We also support alignment 
with a science and risk-based definition that is being employed Federally 
through the U.S. EPA’s Toxic Substances Control Act, as well as the National 
PFAS Testing Strategy that the U.S. EPA has proposed. 
 
 
I think this point has been raised a couple of times.  What makes 
this challenging, however, is that the definition that is currently being 
proposed through S3177 is inconsistent with the Federal definition that is 
currently being looked at, and that is going to end up, perhaps, causing a lot 
of compliance challenges for the regulated community as well as a lack of 
clarity specifically around which compounds are most critically of concern for 
the remediation purposes for the State. 
 
 
Morris Plains, New Jersey, specifically, is home to our advanced 
materials business at Honeywell, and it is approximately 700 employees.  
Many other technologies that are essential have been researched and 
developed, including HFOs -- or hydrofluoroolefins for short.  Under S3177 
as currently drafted, HFOs would be, unfortunately, included in the State’s 
definition of PFAS. 
 
 
So, just taking a step back, what exactly are these?  I know 
they’ve mentioned a couple of times today, and why they’re so important 
from not just the State perspective but also Federal perspective as well as 
global perspective.  HFOs are very innovative gases.  They were developed to 
replace really high global-warming gases.  So, a lot of our air conditioners, air 
conditioners in our cars; they’re used in spray foam, if you will.  So, from the 
perspective of what these products are used for, they are non-ozone-
depleting, they are non-toxic, they are non-bioaccumulative, and they 
 
 
 
105 
degrade in the environment in a matter of days, unlike what I think a lot of 
the traditional PFAS chemistry that we are discussing today are for.  
 
They’re also very essential for meeting our climate goals.  To date, 
Honeywell’s HFOs have helped to avoid the potential release of close to 329 
metric tons of Co2e in the atmosphere.  What does that really mean?  It’s 
close to 70 million gas-powered vehicles per year that we’ve taken off the 
streets by using these gases.  So, pretty significant if you think about it in 
terms of the sustainability impacts we’ve had. 
 
 
We also heard some concerns, I think, from the predecessors, 
that these gases were perhaps unsafe or being brought into market without 
the regulatory regime taking a very close look at it.  And, I just want to say 
that that’s categorically untrue -- they’re very heavily regulated materials, 
pursuant to the U.S. EPA’s Clean Air Act and other environmental programs 
-- namely, EPA has a program called The Significant New Alternatives Policy 
Program, or the SNAP program, in short.  This is essentially a program that 
looks at-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Could you wrap it up, please? 
 
 
DR. BELL:  Sure. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
 
DR. BELL:  -- gases every year, essentially. 
 
 
To come back to the point that you made earlier, Senator, we are 
specifically looking for an exemption for HFO gases to effectively craft a 
balanced science-based policy, pursuant to U.S. EPA’s SNAP program under 
the U.S. Clean Air Act.  And, with the policy definition, that essentially aligns 
with the Federal approach, if you will. 
 
 
That’s it.  Thank you. 
 
 
 
106 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
 
Questions?  (no response) 
 
 
OK, thank you very much for your testimony. 
 
 
DR. BELL:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I appreciate it; thanks. 
 
 
OK, the next person I’m going to call is Andrew -- is it Beam-us 
--  From SPAN -- Sustainable PFAS Action Network.  Seeking amendments. 
 
 
So, you have three minutes.  Let us know what they are. 
A N D R E W   B E M U S:  You got it; that’s how you pronounce my name, 
very good. 
 
 
Vice Chair Greenstein, members of the Committee, thank you 
very much for your time today. 
 
 
My name is Andrew Bemus with the Sustainable PFAS Action 
Network. 
 
 
SPAN is a coalition of PFAS users and producers who are 
committed to sustainable and risk-based solutions for PFAS management.  
Our members advocate for responsible policies that assure long-term human 
health and environmental protection while recognizing the critical need for 
certain PFAS materials in the modern 21st-century economy.  We are 
committed to working with legislators to find a sustainable and effective 
program for PFAS management in New Jersey, and recognize the importance 
of identifying and remediating contaminated sites. 
 
 
This is a complex issue, and we appreciate the Committee 
hosting a discussion-only hearing to think through the right elements of this 
legislation. 
 
 
 
107 
 
 
SPAN is also involved -- been involved -- in a number of other 
states -- Minnesota and Maine as has been mentioned.  That’s been a very 
collaborative process that we’re very proud of and is ongoing and we look 
forward to beginning that here in New Jersey. 
 
 
Over 10,000 compounds would be included as PFAS under the 
legislation’s current definition -- only a portion of which are used in 
commerce.  Any PFAS-management program must be targeted at 
commercially active compounds that pose the greatest risk to human health 
and environment.  We want to work with you and the Federal government 
to do that. 
 
 
We strongly support 3177’s provisions establishing a source-
reduction program, and we think these provisions can be made even stronger.  
However, other provisions of the bill are very broad and will encourage non-
compliance, overwhelm regulators, and not do enough to address 
contamination issues.  The right definition of PFAS is essential and should 
be narrowed to more accurately reflect the nature of PFAS usage in the 
economy. 
 
 
Defining PFAS as two fully fluorinated carbon atoms will help 
New Jersey employers comply with the statute, and regulators more 
effectively identify compounds responsible for contamination issues.  The 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, as well as other states such as 
Delaware, Virginia, and West Virginia, have adopted narrower definitions 
that effectively target high-risk and high-emissive compounds. 
 
 
Overall, PFAS management is best led through a uniform, 
Federal approach.  The U.S. EPA is currently undergoing rulemaking for a 
PFAS reporting program, with final rules expected later this year.  PFAS 
 
 
 
108 
remediation will take decades to complete successfully, and any New Jersey 
program must take into account this length of time and potential cost of the 
program. 
 
 
In a notice published last November, EPA announced that they 
were increasing the estimated social cost of the forthcoming TSCA Section 8 
PFAS reporting rule from 10.8 million estimated in 2021, to 875 million.  
SPAN strongly encourages postponing the notification program until after a 
final promulgation of the forthcoming EPA reporting rules.  This will ensure 
that New Jersey does not duplicate the costly Federal program or embark on 
duplicative regulations. 
 
 
Recent draft amendments on 3177 are very productive steps 
forward, and indicate the Committee’s willingness to collaborate on 
responsible solutions, establishing preemptions for products regulated by the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act, as well as the Federal Insecticide, 
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act -- and, also, FDA and the Department and 
Agriculture are very key inclusions. 
 
 
Vice Chair Greenstein, we’ve provided to your office, and would 
just like to reiterate today, that in keeping with this precedent, we would also 
encourage exemptions for compounds approved under other Federal 
processes such as the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the 
Safe Drinking Water Act, and others that have been amended and updated 
since their passage.  This ensures that compounds entering the marketplace 
have been thoroughly tested for contamination potential, and their regulators 
are not burdened with regulating compounds that have already been tested 
at the Federal level. 
 
 
 
109 
 
 
Briefly, if I could address the Federal process, since it’s been 
discussed a little bit today, there is quite a bit going on.  SPAN has been 
working closely with some representatives in the Senate Environment 
Committee and others to-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Could you begin to wrap up? 
 
 
MR. BEMUS:  Sure, of course. 
 
 
We’re working with the Federal government to identify essential 
uses and come up with a process for doing so. 
 
 
So, we strongly encourage the consideration of these issues, and 
we look forward to the continuing dialogue we’ve had with the bill sponsor’s 
office and others within the Committee. 
 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. Any questions?  (no 
response) 
 
 
Thank you so much. 
 
 
MR. BEMUS:  Thanks. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I appreciate it. 
 
 
OK, next, I’m calling Anjuli Ramos, New Jersey Sierra Club -- in 
favor. 
A N J U L I   R A M O S:  Good afternoon, Senator. 
 
 
Good afternoon, my name is Anjuli Ramos, New Jersey Director 
for the Sierra Club, and I am here in support of this very necessary bill. 
 
 
Thank you for your leadership, Senator Greenstein.  I know this 
is a very difficult topic, and one that affects many types of industries not just 
in New Jersey, but nationally. 
 
 
 
110 
 
 
As I mentioned before, I am the Director for the Sierra Club, but, 
before that, I used to work for the New Jersey Department of Environmental 
Protection, where I did a lot of work on PFAS, particularly in the air, and 
understanding our inhalation exposure to these substances.  I am also a 
chemist, and one who urges a more effective regulation of PFAS in the state 
-- and, that includes a definition that is inclusive of at least one fully 
fluorinated carbon, as it has been discussed quite a lot today. 
 
 
In my experience as a regulator and researcher, the biggest 
challenge was not understanding the very complicated fate and transfer of 
these chemicals in our environment or in our systems.  There’s always the lack 
of data.  The lack of transparency that PFAS manufacturers carry throughout 
their operations, products, and discharges to the environment; the lack of 
willingness to provide data to the State agencies so that those who protect 
this state’s public health could actually evaluate and determine the 
communities and individuals at risk. 
 
 
PFAS are everywhere, including our blood, and there is no 
control of how much is put on products or even what type of products.  There 
is PFAS in women’s sanitary products.  The New Jersey DEP has a lack of 
regulatory power over PFAS because of two main reasons:  The nature of the 
contaminants.  They’re considered emerging contaminants, and, even though 
many of us here know that manufacturers have been using these for decades, 
and because of -- you guessed it -- lack of data, it’s very difficult to regulate 
something that you don’t know where it is or how much of it is in the 
environment. 
 
 
This bill is incredibly necessary.  PFAS are a diverse family of 
chemicals used in hundreds of consumer products.  Nearly every American 
 
 
 
111 
has the chemicals (indiscernible) in their bodies, including umbilical cord 
blood and mother’s milk.  Exposures are highest for newborns and young 
children.  Personally, given my professional experience with PFAS and the 
knowledge that I have as a chemist, I am constantly thinking of my own 
exposure as well as my almost 2-year-old son’s exposure to PFAS.  I try to 
avoid (indiscernible) products with PFAS as much as I can, and I have a 
reverse osmosis filter at home, but that just doesn’t cut it. 
 
 
New Jersey has grappled for decades with the legacy of PFAS 
pollution from primary manufacturing sites -- and we have many of them -- 
as well as more generalized pollution of rivers, wastewater, soil, and food 
crops originating from the widespread use in household and industrial 
products. 
 
 
This bill is an important first step to limit uses of PFAS chemicals 
in common consumer products.  It identifies product categories where 
alternatives do exist, and where other states have identified safer alternatives 
in or taking statutory action to ban PFAS in products.  A registry will track 
the ongoing uses of PFAS in other types of products, enabling state regulators 
to identify other meaningful ways to prevent costly pollution.  The bill would 
authorize critical funds to help the State; scientists to gauge the burden of 
PFAS in our environment, because we still don’t have the full picture; and 
protect New Jerseyans from further harm. 
 
 
We strongly support S3177, its PFAS definition, the banning of 
consumer products, and the resources to be provided to the New Jersey DEP 
to be able to do its job.  This bill is a necessary step to get a hold of the 
widespread PFAS contamination in the state, but also, most importantly, to 
protect our health and our children. 
 
 
 
112 
 
 
We look forward to continuing working with you, but I also want 
to add that the problem with resources for the DEP just gets solved by giving 
the DEP more money.  And, it would also benefit the DEP if they don’t have 
to spend so much energy fighting with manufacturers for the lack of 
transparency of data, and then just focus on utilizing that data and 
understanding what the true problem is.  That’s how you fix a problem. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
Any questions?  (no response) 
 
 
Thank you so much. 
 
 
Next, I have Doug O’Malley, Environment New Jersey -- in favor. 
D O U G   O ’ M A L L E Y:  Thank you so much, Senator Greenstein; thank 
you to members of the Committee. 
 
 
I know we’re three hours into the Committee.  This is a long--  
This is incredibly important, though, and I just wanted to appreciate and 
thank you for your leadership, Senator Greenstein, for the work of, of course 
the last year; the invited speakers from far and wide; and, obviously, the folks 
who have been in front of you in the last few minutes. 
 
 
I serve as the Director of Environment New Jersey.  I did want 
to highlight that we, obviously, we’ve been inside for three hours at least, 
right -- we know we cannot go outside and breathe the air at healthy levels.  
When you take a drink of water here in the state, you usually do not taste 
PFAS in it.  And, that is why it’s so critical that we have the strongest possible 
standards to move forward on source reduction.  And, that’s why we strongly 
support this bill right now. 
 
 
 
113 
 
 
I think it’s critical to know that here in New Jersey, we are not--  
We are uniquely vulnerable.  We have some of the highest levels of PFAS 
contamination in our drinking water.  Obviously, DEP is not here; I want to 
directly thank the work of the New Jersey Drinking Water Quality Institute 
and DEP, including former Commissioner McCabe, for the groundbreaking 
research in 2016 and 2017 -- that started years before that, by the way -- to 
talk about the health impacts.  At that point, EPA had a health protective 
level that was 70 parts per trillion; it was not health protective.  EPA is now 
doing the right thing, but it’s partially because states like New Jersey were 
leading the way. 
 
 
And, when we think about why that happened, that’s because it 
goes back to 2006, for PFAS being found in drinking water in Penns Grove;  
In 2013, Solvay in West Deptford was linked directly to PFAS 
contamination.  There’s natural resource damage litigation that’s occurring, 
that was filed three years ago by DEP targeting Solvay, and specifically 
looking at the impacts in Paulsboro.  There’s a national health study going 
on in Paulsboro being led by Rutgers University to test blood samples to 
figure out PFAS contamination in our blood.  We should not, obviously, be 
experiments. 
 
 
And, I want to highlight, too -- and, Senator Smith highlighted 
this -- that litigation, NRD, the most important thing that is happening right 
now in PFAS beyond the action of EPA is the litigation, the settlements on 
the court -- you know, the courtroom steps.  Those are significant.  The 
settlement just happened earlier this month with DuPont and Chemours and 
another chemical company -- that was for $1 billion.  And, that sounds like a 
lot of money, but 3M just announced it was going to settle for $10 billion, 
 
 
 
114 
and has acknowledged that it has a risk of $140 billion.  3M also -- and, this 
is critical for the bill -- 3M also said they are going to remove PFAS from the 
manufacturing processes, and work to remove it from the products by 2025 
-- that’s two years from now. 
 
 
So, obviously, great to have Beautycounter here to talk about 
what they’re doing.  It’s a reminder that companies that are under the 
litigation gun are also changing their business practices, and that’s why, 
obviously, New Jersey needs to change its practices.  There’s a fire bell on our 
faucets right now, and it is going off. 
 
 
And I wanted to thank you, Senator, because this bill will help 
to lead the way.  You’re hearing, obviously, a lot of push for amendments -- 
we would encourage this bill not to be watered down, for the definition of 
PFAS to stay where it is; to maintain that two-year timeline, which has 
already been extended. 
 
 
And, then, I do want to acknowledge there’s $5 million in the 
bill.  There’s been some conversation about whether DEP has the resources.  
If there is adequate concern, we would encourage there be increased funding 
for DEP to be able to implement this bill. 
 
 
Thank you so much. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
Any questions?  (no response) 
 
 
Thank you very much, Doug. 
 
 
OK, Eric Benson, Clean Water Action -- in favor. 
E R I C   B E N S O N:  Thanks, Senators, it’s been a long morning; I will 
be brief. 
 
 
 
115 
 
 
Not surprised -- no, I am surprised, but I’m not disappointed that 
microwave popcorn has already come up in today’s discussion.  In 2006, I 
worked on a popcorn campaign writing letters to the CEO of Orville 
Redenbacher, “Please remove this from your products.”  So, this has a long 
history for me personally and professionally. 
 
 
New Jersey is ahead of the curve, having a drinking-water 
standard and removing PFAS from our drinking water -- which is great.  But, 
it’s a toxic legacy that requires us to eliminate the source.  Clean Water 
Action -- you heard my Minnesota colleague who is part of a safer states 
movement -- remains focused on the fact that so many consumer products, 
including water and stain-resistant clothing, contains PFAS chemicals that 
are harmful to the health of humans and the environment. 
 
 
The classes of over 12,000 chemicals are linked to kidney and 
testicular cancers, high cholesterol, and impaired immune function.  They 
don’t break down; they’re persistent, so they get into source water, 
groundwater, and surface, all over the country.  Individual actors -- 
McDonald’s, Burger King, Walmart, Lowe’s, Patagonia, most recently REI -- 
are committed to removing PFAS from their textiles, home furnishings, and 
other outdoor apparel and food packaging.  They have shown it is possible, 
so we can and should be doing more, so we are fully supportive of this 
legislation. 
 
 
Thank you for your leadership. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  The next person I have is Ryan 
Berger.  It does say, “no need to testify,” but you say that you’re seeking 
amendments. 
 
 
 
116 
 
 
Can you very briefly, like in a minute or so, tell us what the -- if 
you’re here.  Is Ryan Berger here?  He might not be here. 
 
 
Is Ryan Berger here? 
 
 
OK, what group are you with?  Oh, New Jersey SEED. 
 
 
Can you very, very briefly tell us what amendments you’re 
seeking? 
R Y A N   B E R G E R:  I am going to make it very brief, as I did put on the 
note that we are along with the Chemistry Council of New Jersey on-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  You’re in agreement with what they 
spoke about? 
 
 
MR. BERGER:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  OK, so, that’s fine. 
 
 
MR. BERGER:  That’s pretty much it. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I thought you might have some 
additional amendments, but, if you don’t, don’t worry. 
 
 
MR. BERGER:  Absolutely; thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much. Thank you. 
 
 
OK, Allison McLeod, New Jersey League of Conservation Voters 
-- in favor. 
 
 
Hi, how are you? 
R E B E C C A   H I L B E R T:  Hi, I am actually Rebecca Hilbert, I am the 
Senior Policy Manager with New Jersey League of Conservation Voters.  I am 
filling in for Allison, as she had to run to a different meeting. 
 
 
But, we want to thank Senator Greenstein with everyone else for 
your work on all your PFAS legislation that’s been moving. 
 
 
 
117 
 
 
This really could be the crown jewel.  All the other bills are a lot 
about remediation, which is great, but this bill really does help stop it at the 
source, which is extremely important. 
 
 
I echo a lot of my colleagues’ concerns and motions of support, 
and I just want to say that I am not going to reiterate all the health concerns 
that we heard today, or exactly everywhere PFAS are found.  I think we’ve 
heard enough of that. 
 
 
But, I do want to say that the ask of this bill is not unreasonable.  
We’re not requiring manufacturers to remove all PFAS out of every product.  
There’s a difference between adding PFAS on purpose and remediating the 
ones that are occurring organically from cross-contamination. 
 
 
So, we also want to stress that this is not uncharted territory.  
We heard today that 12 states, including Maryland, have enacted phase-out 
in food packaging, on carpets and rugs; Colorado is getting it out of indoor 
and outdoor furniture; California is phasing PFAS out of children’s products.  
What we really want to stress is that we don’t want New Jersey to fall behind 
on health.  New Jersey has always been a leader; we don’t wait to see what 
other folks are doing, we lead, and we want to keep that here.  We may use 
these chemicals in our home products for just a few minutes, but they live in 
our air, they live in our water, they live in our bodies for decades -- for forever. 
 
 
So, we urge you to discuss and vote yes when the time comes on 
this bill. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you so much. 
 
 
Questions?  (no response) 
 
 
Thank you very much. Thank you. 
 
 
 
118 
 
 
OK, Andy Hackman, I think it says Ameri-par, or Ameri-plan -- 
I can’t read. 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Ameripen. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Ameripen?  OK, it says no need to 
testify, but seeking amendments. 
 
 
Are you here, Andy?  (no response) 
 
 
You’re not -- OK.  I just, I like to know what the amendments 
are, which is what I’m checking. 
 
 
OK, I have no name, but it says “Flexible packaging.”  Again, no 
need to testify -- seeking amendments. 
 
 
Is the person here from that group?  From flexible packaging?  
Anybody?  (no response) 
 
 
The next one says “Juvenile Products Manufacturers.”  Again, no 
need to testify -- seeking amendments.  Is someone here from Juvenile 
Products Manufacturers? 
 
 
OK, Roxy Kozyckyj and Amanda Hagan, Advanced -- no, 
AdvaMed, AdvaMed.  It says seeking amendments. 
R O X Y   K O Z Y C K Y J:  I have a copy of our written testimony that I 
can just hand out here.  
SENATOR GREENSTEIN: OK 
MS. KOZYCKYJ:  I also have sent that along yesterday. 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN: Thanks. 
MS. KOZYCKYJ:  (Indiscernible) 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN: Now the amendments that we made 
were in favor of a group like yours. Did you like those amendments? 
 
 
 
119 
MS. KOZYCKYJ: Yes, it’s just some technical fixes; wording.  
But, intent and content is pretty much -- yes, (indiscernible) thank you. 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN: It’s always good to please some 
groups. 
 
 
MS. KOZYCKYJ:  No, yes, thank you.  We’re just here--  So, my 
name is Roxy Kozyckyj, I am the Director of State Affairs at AdvaMed.  
We’re the advanced medical technology association-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Make sure your red light is on 
(referring to the microphone). 
 
 
MS. KOZYCKYJ:  Oh. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Press the button. 
 
 
MS. KOZYCKYJ:  There we go, OK. 
 
 
I’m here with AdvaMed, the Advanced Medical Technology 
Association.  We represent over 400 med-tech manufacturers; diagnostics; 
digital health manufacturers with a very large and proud presence in New 
Jersey. 
 
 
So, I’ll be brief, just because we are running up against time.  We 
support the amendments that have been included that exempt medical 
devices -- FDA-regulated medical devices and medical products.  We just have 
some technical fixes and some wording that we’ve included in the written 
comments that we -- that I sent along, and also distributed.  
 
 
And, so, as has been said before, earlier, Minnesota just enacted 
a very broad-based PFAS law, and we are exempt from that, so I think that is 
kind of telling that leaving it up to the agency level for essential products that 
are heavily regulated, like FDA products, like insulin pumps, pacemakers, 
 
 
 
120 
mammography machines, catheters, etc., should be more explicitly put into 
the law.  So, we’re very happy with where the amendments are going. 
 
 
And, again, just want to keep working with the Committee, with 
you, and with the other co-sponsors, and I’m happy to be a resource and 
answer questions.  And, that’s it. 
 
 
So, thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Did you have anything to add? 
A M A N D A   H A G A N:  I’ll just say I’m Mandy Hagan, I’m with the 
Animal Health Institute. 
 
 
Our members make animal medicines like flea and tick collars, 
oral treatments -- really, we signed up to testify together because we have the 
same, pretty much, position, that-- 
 
 
MS. KOZYCKYJ:  And, we have overlapping members, too. 
 
 
MS. HAGAN:  (laughter) State-regulated, EPA-registered, and 
USDA-regulated products should be carved out, because it’s a misconception 
that every product that has a fully fluorinated carbon atom is inherently 
dangerous.  Our products are rigorously tested; there’s no need to lump them 
in with what the department will be looking at. 
 
 
So, thank you for the amendment that you drafted.  We 
appreciate you working with us.  Your office has been great, and we support 
the amendment that you’ve put in. 
 
 
Like Roxy, we have some minor things.  Like, it should say “EPA 
registered,” not “EPA approved.”  We’ll send you those suggestions and look 
forward to working with you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. Just put any ideas in 
writing and send them to us. Thank you very much. 
 
 
 
121 
 
 
MS. HAGAN:  OK, thank you. 
 
 
MS. KOZYCKYJ:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Appreciate it. 
Next I have Shawn Swear-in-gin, maybe, and Ed Waters, also 
American Chemistry Council. 
 
 
It says here “seeking amendments.”  If you just want to let us 
know what the amendments are. 
 
 
Thank you. 
S H A W N   S W E A R I N G E N:  Thank you, Chair. 
 
 
Yes, Shawn Swearingen; thank you again for the time to be here 
today.  American Chemistry Council Director for the Alliance for Telomer 
Chemistry Stewardship. 
 
 
And, I really want to thank you again for all the meetings that 
we’ve had through the process since the bill was first introduced. 
 
 
So, we are seeking amendments, and we’ve supplied those, and 
we can update with the amendments that you have, to date, to make sure 
we’re all in alignment there. 
 
 
There are a couple of things I just want to point out that weren’t 
covered already.  Several other statements here today by those members of 
the coalition certainly agree with testing methods, but I really want to hit on 
the point of the definition as well, that not all PFAS is the same. 
 
 
Like I mentioned, the Alliance for Telomer Chemistry 
Stewardship, we really focus on the telomery (phonetic spelling) aspect of the 
broad PFAS family of chemistry.  You know, telomers, for instance, are used-
-  They’re being phased out of food packaging, I know that was touched on 
today.  But, they are essential components of medical garments; hospital 
 
 
 
122 
gowns; drapes; divider curtains to create a barrier that provides life-saving 
protection against diseases and illnesses. 
 
 
Another type of PFAS, fluoropolymers -- which, I know they have 
written comments in today as well -- they were integral to the COVID-19 
testing equipment, and the medical technology of those life-saving and saving 
lives across the globe.  And, I know we have the medical in here, too, but I 
just wanted to use that as an example. 
 
 
Again, I want this on record, too:  The chemical industry 
supports a comprehensive approach to managing per- and polyfluoroalkyl 
substances that helps ensure the protection of human health and the 
environment.  This includes appropriate science-based policies and 
regulations.   
 
 
We touched on today, and we’ve had several people talk about 
Maine; we’ve also been working very closely in there since that bill was first 
introduced.  Working collaboratively with stakeholders across the aisles and 
with bill sponsors. 
 
 
One thing I wanted to point out is -- let me just get back to my 
other page.  I’m just trying to hit the high notes for you, Madam Chair. 
 
 
Senate Bill 3177, like the Maine law, is overly broad in scope, 
and will likely capture hundreds if not thousands of products -- most of which 
do not present significant risk concerns highlighted today by other testimony, 
rather than focusing on PFAS chemistries and products to present the 
greatest potential risk concerns. 
 
 
Moreover, like the Maine law, Senate Bill 3177 will be 
enormously difficult to implement, and will pose unreasonable burdens on 
businesses and residents in New Jersey.  I am happy to talk in future meetings 
 
 
 
123 
on some of those examples that we heard across those states in Minnesota, 
and in Maine. 
 
 
We note, in this regard, that California did pass a similar 
reporting bill last session that was ultimately vetoed by Governor Newsom.  
The governor cited the steep burdens of (indiscernible), as well as redundancy 
with forthcoming EPA reporting regulations, as mentioned earlier today.  
And, these reporting regulations have been finalized and are currently with 
OMB under review and expect to be published within weeks.  So, this is where 
ask-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Can I ask you to wrap it up? 
 
 
MR.  SWEARINGEN:  Yes, I was just on my last line, to say 
thank you, and I’m happy to continue these conversations further. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN: Thank you. Thanks. 
 
 
Ed? 
E D  W A T E R S:  Good afternoon, Chairwoman Greenstein. 
 
 
I just want to point to a letter that I submitted -- this is the most 
recent copy that I submitted today.  I apologize; I sent multiple copies to you 
yesterday, but we have over 70 groups that represent pretty much every sector 
of the New Jersey economy, manufacturing, that are seeking common-sense 
amendments to this bill. 
 
 
CCNJ supports measures to keep the public safe and our air and 
water resources clean for generations to come.  We don’t oppose this bill, but 
we’re seeking common-sense amendments to address the issues that this bill 
is seeking to address, which is protecting against forever chemicals. 
 
 
We appreciate the generous amount of time that you have 
afforded us to discuss our concerns, and our solutions.  And, we appreciate 
 
 
 
124 
that some of the challenges we outlined were/are being addressed in the 
amendments -- specifically the (indiscernible) and the pharmaceutical, 
animal-health, and medical-device exemptions. 
 
 
Unfortunately, we still believe this bill goes too far, and we 
believe our biggest concern in this bill as written is that PFAS is defined too 
broadly, and fails to recognize key environmental and toxicological 
differences in this broad family of chemistries. 
 
 
There are over 9,000 PFAS substances, and not all are created 
equal.  For example, fluoropolymers should not be in the scope of the bill, as 
they are a chemistry inert and critical to the functioning of modern society. 
 
 
Second, the bill gives DEP unprecedented authority to 
recommend legislature, products, or categories of products with intentionally 
added PFAS that should not be sold or distributed in the State of New Jersey.  
This open-ended process will result in a significant chilling effect for much-
needed domestic investment in critical product supply chains, and fails to 
provide solution providers and regulatory certainty to continue investing in 
the United States, including in New Jersey. 
 
 
CCNJ believes we can achieve this goal -- the goals of this bill -- 
without negatively impacting the stream of commerce or putting new 
technologies at risk.  This can be achieved by changing the definition of PFAS 
to two or more fully fluorinated sequential carbon atoms, excluding gases and 
volatile liquids.  By changing this definition, we will still protect against 
forever chemicals without banning newer technologies which were developed 
to replace the older technologies. 
 
 
We also need stronger language to protect intellectual property 
and trade secrets.  And, this bill, unfortunately, is in direct contradiction with 
 
 
 
125 
several of the priorities that this Committee has been working on.  For 
example, electric vehicles and hydrogen technology -- you can’t have an 
electric vehicle without PFAS.  It’s engrained in both the electronic 
components, and in the battery technology.  If the U.S. adequate domestic 
supply is not available for these components, EV manufacturers will be forced 
to rely on Chinese suppliers, which would threaten U.S. national security and 
economic competitiveness. 
 
 
Over-broad PFAS policy also endangers critical hydrogen 
technologies from entering the marketplace and contributing to international 
environmental goals.  As I mentioned earlier, fluoropolymers, a subset of 
PFAS, are vital to critical industries that are the foundation of our sustainable 
future, including hydrogen infrastructure, semiconductor manufacturing, and 
electric vehicles.  Particular to hydrogen-- 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Ed? 
MR. WATERS:  Yes? 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Can you begin to wrap it up? 
 
 
MR. WATERS:  Sure, sure. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thanks. 
 
 
MR. WATERS:  So, we’re concerned that some of the priorities 
that this Committee has are going to be set back by not having PFAS.  They’re 
important, and not every PFAS is created equally. 
 
 
Any questions? 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you both very much for your 
testimony. 
 
 
And, any additional -- I know we have info from you – but, any 
additional print amendments-- 
 
 
 
126 
 
 
MR. WATERS:  Sure-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  --that you’re suggesting-- 
 
 
MR. WATERS:  --and, we look forward to continuing to work 
with you on this. 
 
 
SENATOR GRENSTEIN:  OK. 
 
 
All right, now I am going to read off a couple here. 
 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  Senator? 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Yes? 
 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  If I could just make a comment? 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Please. 
 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  I just want to commend the 
Chemistry Council for pulling together this coalition.  It’s been very helpful 
for me to understand what’s going on, and the impact on the business 
community. 
 
 
Chairwoman, I want to commend you for listening and for being 
open to changes.  That’s what legislation should be, and I really appreciate 
your efforts. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  We all kind of have the same goal:  
We want to get to a safe space, but we want to do it in a reasonable way, and, 
unfortunately, the Federal government is not taking the lead.  I was happy to 
hear that they are working on some things with the EPA, because I don’t want 
to see us with a patchwork of different definitions, different regulations, they 
just--  Because I don’t see how businesses can work with that kind of 
environment. 
 
 
 
127 
 
 
So, hopefully, the talks will continue and we will be able to get 
to a bill that works for everybody, and for all our goals. 
 
 
But, thank you very much, all of you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  I hope so, and I very much 
appreciate your comments. 
 
 
And, I also agree the Chemistry Council has done a great job of 
getting it all together, and hearing some of the different views out there. 
 
 
We’re really trying to listen to what people are saying. 
 
 
SENATOR STANFIELD:  I can see that. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  OK, just going to read off a few 
things, here:  Tony Russo, Commerce and Industry -- it says no need to 
testify, seeking amendments, but seeking the same amendments as the 
Chemistry Council.  So, I guess we’ll know what that is. 
 
 
Anthony Anastasio, Civil Justice Initiative -- opposed, no need to 
testify.  Dan Moyor, Consumer Technology Association -- submitted written 
testimony, opposed, no need to testify.  Wayne Weikel, Alliance for 
Automative Innovation -- opposed, no need to testify.  Dennis Hart and Riaz 
Zaman, New Jersey Paint Council and American Coatings Association -- 
opposed, and it says seeking amendments. 
D E N N I S   H A R T:  Good afternoon, Chairwoman. 
 
 
Dennis Hart with the New Jersey Paint Council.  I am here today 
with Riaz Zaman from the American Coatings Association. 
 
 
I want to start off--  Perhaps I’m cranky from not having eaten 
anything yet today, but I want to echo my colleague, Mike Egerton (sic), from 
the Chamber of Commerce, that we should--  There are a number of people 
who traveled here last night and today from out of state for today’s testimony.  
 
 
 
128 
In the future, with OLS, if you’re going to allow video testimony, it should 
be afforded to everyone to make life easier. 
 
 
I want to start by saying fluoropolymer chemistry -- I don’t want 
to repeat everything you’ve heard from today, but what we want to say is, I 
want to follow-up on what Chairman Smith started his testimony off with.  
He said that people were arguing that we shouldn’t do anything; I have not 
heard one person, not one business, not one association, say we shouldn’t do 
anything.  What we’re saying is, we should not do something that is so overly 
broad and so encompassing that it falls down under its own weight. 
 
 
I watched the testimony for the State of Maine on that 
legislation; I watched the cleanup bill that they’re working on; and I watched 
the regulations that they did public hearings on.  And, contrary to some of 
the testimony, the State of Maine has created a catastrophe for themselves, 
and they’re trying to figure out how to back themselves out of that, and untie 
the knots that they’ve tied themselves into. 
 
 
For an example, the boat-building industry, which is very 
important to Maine, testified that in one small boat, there’s over 9,000 
pieces.  How are they going to go and look at every one of those pieces and 
figure out which one has PFAS, which doesn’t?  Does that actually--  Does 
that product that has PFAS in it, is actually a risk to the environment?  And, 
they’re very concerned that it’ll have a devastating impact to the boat 
industry.  That’s our issue. 
 
 
In New Jersey, whenever there’s major problems like this -- which 
is a major problem -- we take it and break it down into its parts that can be 
manageable, and we work towards the future.  I’m old enough that, to me, 
the most impressive date in the New Jersey environment was July 1, 1988.  
 
 
 
129 
That was the secondary treatment deadline that over 200 municipalities 
signed consentive (sic) orders that most of the State was primary sewage 
treatment plant.  We did not go from primary to tertiary treatment plants in 
one two-year period -- there was a process that was set out, we work on the 
goals, and we achieve them.  And, I think that’s what I think you’re trying to 
do with that legislation, and to all of our partners, that’s what we’re 
encouraging. 
 
 
Some specific things that haven’t been talked about today -- 
Number 1 is proprietary information.  This bill requires product 
manufacturers to submit detailed analysis of every product and the 
ingredients and the amounts that are in there.  That is opening the door to 
industrial sabotage.  Until the DEP is able to have a very encrypted data 
system, companies are going to be very reluctant to put in the formula for 
their products to make it open to the market.  It’s like asking Coca-Cola to 
submit -- write a letter and submit to the Department -- what’s the ingredients 
of Coca-Cola.  They would never do that; it’s too risky for their business.  
And, this is a legitimate, very big risk.  The Department would need to have 
a very encrypted data system for this.  Two years ago, they asked for data for 
wastewater-treatment plants that had PFAS, and the data system they created 
was unmanageable and created a huge problem.  So, they need a sophisticated 
program for that. 
 
 
Secondly, they do not have the experience dealing with products.  
DEP deals with contamination, exposure.  Dealing with products and product 
bans -- they’re having a difficult time, from the Legislation that came out of 
this Committee on the polystyrene food container ban, the recycled content 
ban -- they’re having a difficult time with those regulations, and now we’re 
 
 
 
130 
going to pile something that they don’t have the experience and don’t have 
the, really, tens of tens if not hundreds of people they’re going to need to 
implement this. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Dennis, can you begin to wrap it 
up? 
 
 
Thanks. 
 
 
MR. HART:  I am, I am, Ms. Chairman. 
 
 
We appreciate your history of working with everyone, and we 
look forward to this summer of meeting, having stakeholder groups, and 
really diving into this. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  And, I did want to say -- I do 
apologize.  We had a Zoom call with most of the people on there a few days 
ago, and realized that they had good testimony, and obviously, none of them 
could come, they’re all over the place.  So, we said, “Let’s just do a Zoom.” 
 
 
So, it was a very last-minute decision.  But, if you have people 
who would like to testify on this, on a Zoom, I can ask Senator Smith if we 
could do a-- 
 
 
MR. HART:  I appreciate it, and I don’t mean to be a horse’s 
behind like I normally am, but I appreciate that. 
 
 
Thank you, Senator. 
 
 
(laughter) 
R I A Z   Z A M A N, J.D.:  Good afternoon, Senator Greenstein and 
members of the Committee. 
 
 
My name is Riaz Zaman; I am Senior Council with the American 
Coatings Association. 
 
 
 
131 
 
 
Our members manufacture paints, coatings, sealants, adhesives, 
and other formulated products.  The American Coatings Association seeks 
amendments to S3177 due to unnecessarily broad reporting requirements 
that can result in non-compliance, even with good-faith efforts to provide 
information to the State. 
 
 
As 
an 
industry 
that 
works 
downstream 
of 
chemical 
manufacturers, we rely on disclosures made by upstream suppliers.  Suppliers 
typically disclose hazardous chemicals according to OSHA thresholds of 1% 
or 0.1%, depending on the specific hazard associated with the chemical.  
S3177 currently does not provide a de minimis threshold for reporting.  In 
effect, downstream industries must gather information about trace levels of 
fluorinated chemistries that are not disclosed on safety data sheets.  In effect, 
companies must either test their products or conduct extensive due diligence.  
Both situations present significant challenges that can lead to non-
compliance, even with good-faith efforts to comply, because adequate test 
methods do not exist for the diverse range of formulated products that our 
members produce. 
 
 
Companies would need to develop test methods and these, 
inevitably, will have limits on detection and other inaccuracies, and they are 
cost-prohibitive for small businesses.  S3177 also does not provide a standard 
of due diligence, describing efforts the company must take to identify 
whether their products have trace amounts of PFAS.  Because of these 
complexities, we suggest adopting a de minimis reporting threshold. 
 
 
ACA further recommends modifying the definition of PFAS to 
chemicals with two or more fully fluorinated carbon atoms.  This would 
provide 
some 
relief 
in 
identifying 
recordable 
chemicals 
without 
 
 
 
132 
compromising protection from PFAS contamination.  Compounds with single 
fluorinated carbons are not associated with PFAS contamination, and are 
typically non-toxic.  Similarly, we support other amendments to the 
definition of PFAS that would focus the legislation on those fluorinated 
chemicals that are most associated with contamination. 
 
 
With the two or more fluorinated carbon definition, the State is 
still dealing with a broad set of chemicals, estimated by EPA to be around 
600 or more chemicals.  It also brings some focus on those chemistries that 
are associated with contamination, usually with four or more sequential 
fluorinated carbons, while also more closely aligning with EPA’s PFAS 
definition. 
 
 
Thanks again for the opportunity to speak with you.  I’ve 
provided additional information in my written comments, and I appreciate 
your consideration. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Any questions? (no response) 
Thank you very much, both of you. Thanks. 
 
 
OK, I guess it’s Ian McLaughlin, BioNJ -- it says no need to 
testify, but seeking amendments. 
 
 
Are you here, Ian?  (no response) 
 
 
Not here?  OK. 
 
 
Haskell Berman -- no need to testify, seeking amendments.  Did 
you want to just tell us what the amendments-- 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  We are in agreement with 
AdvaMed’s testimony, and thank you for-- 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Say it again, I’m sorry. 
 
 
 
133 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  We are in agreement with 
AdvaMed’s testimony (indiscernible) language. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  OK, thank you. 
 
 
Greg Costa, Consumer Brands Association -- opposed -- no, 
maybe not -- seeking amendments. 
 
 
Are you still here? 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Senator, he left. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  OK, thank you. 
 
 
The last person I have is Sharonda Allen, Tri-County 
Sustainability -- in favor. 
 
 
Hi, how are you? 
S H A R O N D A   A L L E N:  (indiscernible) 
 
 
Good afternoon, everyone.  It’s been a long morning. 
 
 
Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice Chair, and Committee members, 
thank you for the opportunity to speak today. 
 
 
I am Sharonda Allen, Environmental Justice Co-Chair for Tri-
County Sustainability.  We are the hub for the 101 towns, 10 Legislative 
Districts, and 1.2 million residents of Burlington, Camden, and Gloucester 
counties. 
 
 
South Jersey has had enough of these forever chemicals.  They’re 
in everything we eat, drink, and wear.  Last Tuesday, we spent two hours with 
Dr. Gloria Post, who is one of the preeminent scientists in the country on the 
subject of PFAS and drinking-water contaminants.  The CliffsNotes version 
is that this stuff is just plan toxic.  And, I just want to add in a little 
something:  It causes infertility in men, as well; that was something that no 
 
 
 
134 
one else mentioned.  So, maybe that would hit home and help with the cause.  
(laughter) 
 
 
These chemicals stay in our bodies for years.  For this reason, I 
want to thank Senator Greenstein and Senator Smith for introducing Senate 
Bill 3177.  This smart policy gives consumers a fighting chance by letting 
them know what is in the everyday products we use before we make the 
decision to buy. 
 
 
The people of South Jersey are smart.  Give us the tools we need 
to make safe choices.  With this said, we ask that the Committee vote today 
to advance S3177.  This will help to curb exposure to dangerous forever 
chemicals. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Thank you very much. Any 
questions? (no response) 
 
 
Thank you for coming. 
 
 
MS. ALLEN:  Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR GREENSTEIN:  Is there anyone else I missed? 
 
 
It would be hard for me to believe, but maybe I did. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
OK, meeting adjourned. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
