 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
ASSEMBLY SCIENCE, INNOVATION,  
AND TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE 
 
“The Committee will receive testimony from invited guests from the scientific community 
concerning marine mammal deaths that have occurred along the Atlantic Coast” 
 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 16 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
May 18, 2023 
10:00 a.m. 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Assemblyman P. Christopher Tully, Chair 
Assemblywoman Linda S. Carter, Vice Chair 
Assemblyman William F. Moen 
Assemblywoman Ellen J. Park 
Assemblyman Christian E. Barranco 
Assemblyman Antwan L. McClellan 
 
 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jonathan Allotey 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jack Barnes 
Mikaela Chianese 
 
 
 
Alexandra Hayes 
Suzanne Miller 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Theodore 
 
 
Reina Smrdelj 
Office of Legislative Services  
 
Assembly Majority 
 
 
Assembly Republican 
Committee Aides 
 
 
 
Committee Aides 
 
 
Committee Aide
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
Shawn M. LaTourette 
Commissioner 
New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) 
2 
 
Danielle Brown 
Director of Research 
Gotham Whale, and 
Ph.D. candidate 
Rutgers University 
30 
 
Josh T. Kohut, Ph.D. 
Professor of Oceanography 
Center for Ocean Observing Leadership 
Rutgers University 
35 
 
Sheila Dean 
Director 
Marine Mammal Stranding Center 
39 
 
Douglas Nowacek, Ph.D. 
Professor of Conservation Technology in Environment and Engineering 
Marine Science & Conservation Marine Lab 
Duke University 
54 
 
Robert A. DiGiovanni, Jr. 
Founder and Chief Scientist 
Atlantic Marine Conservation Society 
63 
 
 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony and additional materials 
Submitted by 
Josh T. Kohut, Ph.D. 
1x 
 
Testimony and additional materials 
submitted by 
Sheila Dean 
11x 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Alex Sauickie III 
Assemblyman 
New Jersey Legislative District 12 
17x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Christopher J. Connors 
Senator, and 
Brian E. Rumpf 
Assemblyman, and 
DiAnne C. Gove 
Assemblywoman 
New Jersey Legislative District 9 
20x 
 
 
mej: 1-75
 
 
 
1 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN P. CHRISTOPHER TULLY (Chair):  Good 
morning. 
 
 
Welcome, everyone, to today’s Assembly Science Tech and 
Innovation Committee. 
 
 
Please stand up for the Pledge of Allegiance. 
 
 
(Pledge of Allegiance recited) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  OK, Mikaela, please take the roll. 
 
 
MS. CHIANESE:  Assemblyman Barranco. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Here. 
 
 
MS. CHIANESE:  Assemblyman McClellan. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Here. 
 
 
MS. CHIANESE:  Assemblywoman Park. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN PARK:  Here. 
 
 
MS. CHIANESE:  Assemblyman Moen. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MOEN:  Here. 
 
 
MS. CHIANESE:  Vice-Chair Carter. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN LINDA S. CARTER (Vice-Chair):  
Here. 
 
 
MS. CHIANESE:  Chairman Tully. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Here. 
 
 
MS. CHIANESE:  You have a quorum. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you. 
 
 
Good morning, everybody, and thank you for being here today. 
 
 
Like many of you, we’re upset about whales washing up on our 
shores, and are seeking evidence today of what’s contributing to it.  Today’s 
hearing will be a science-based bipartisan opportunity to take testimony and 
 
 
 
2 
hear recommendations from the scientific community about what the State 
of New Jersey can do to address this issue. 
 
 
The public has a right to know that their government is 
monitoring issues of great public interests and concern.  But, before acting, 
we must understand the problem.  It’s important to hear and understand the 
facts from the scientific experts, and we are going to take a thoughtful data-
driven, fact-based approach today. 
 
 
We’re not here to draw any conclusions, but we’re here to collect 
evidence.  As more evidence becomes available from reports conducted for 
both the State and Federal level, the Legislature may hold additional 
hearings. 
 
 
We are obviously very distressed over the increase in large marine 
mammals washing ashore, and we also know that this can negatively impact 
the quality of life in our shore communities, which is an economic hub of our 
state.  Twelve members of the New Jersey Congressional Delegation have 
written letters about whale deaths, and we share their concerns.  We want to 
be part of ensuring that the public and the Legislature is receiving solid 
scientific information. 
 
 
I look forward to what we will learn today, and I thank our 
invited guests for testifying. 
 
 
And, with that, we’re going to start with Shawn LaTourette, our 
DEP Commissioner. 
 
 
Shawn, are you here?  Here you go. 
 
 
Commissioner, thank you so much for being here today. 
S H A W N   M.   L a T O U R E T T E:  It’s a pleasure, thank you for the 
invitation. 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
So, I’ll start by offering a few opening remarks, and leave plenty 
of time to address questions, concerns that this panel may have relative to, 
as you described, Chairman, an important issue -- one that we at the 
Department of Environmental Protection take with the utmost seriousness. 
 
 
For those of you who I have not had the pleasure of engaging 
much with, my name is Shawn LaTourette, and I have the distinction of 
serving as New Jersey’s Commissioner of Environmental Protection. 
 
 
And, to my mind -- and to the minds of the hundreds of 
environmental professionals who serve our residents every single day at DEP 
-- one of the foundational imperatives for us is the management of the public 
trust.  Because every single natural resource of this state -- the air, the land, 
the water; our open and wild spaces; our fish and wildlife and their habitats  
-- every single one of these natural resources belong to the people.  Not to the 
government; not to this panel; not to the fine professionals of the DEP who 
work so hard every day to protect them.  Every single natural resource belongs 
to the people of this state.  And, we are charged with protecting those 
resources -- holding them in trust and ensuring their good care. 
 
 
And, there’s many ways that we do that that are relevant to 
today’s inquiry.  One of the ways that we do that is through our management 
of our coastal resources.  So, New Jersey discharges responsibilities under the 
Coastal Zone Management Act -- the Federal Coastal Zone Management Act, 
and our State coastal environmental laws.  And, those laws require the sound 
management of marine resources.  So, in fulfilling our mission, we regulate 
activities in state waters, including the development of energy-generating 
facilities and infrastructure, and we otherwise coordinate environmental 
reviews across Federal government agencies. 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
We at DEP expect -- but, importantly, legally require -- that every 
regulated entity, including offshore wind project sponsors, pursue 
development objectives, including assessing potential environmental impacts 
with a sound and responsible approach that requires the avoidance, the 
minimization, and the mitigation of potentially adverse impacts upon natural 
resources.  That is a fundamental part of our mission. 
 
 
But, we have another really important mission:  We serve, in 
many respects, as this state’s climate science agency.  The Division of Science 
and Research at the Department of Environmental Protection; the climate 
mitigation and monitoring program; our air quality energy and sustainability 
program; our climate resilience planning program -- all of these 
instrumentalities come together to study and to report on New Jersey’s 
climate experience. 
 
 
And, the truth is that New Jersey is ground zero for some of the 
worst impacts of climate change.  Many of you see this unfolding across your 
districts.  We have a risk of increasing sea levels two times greater than most 
other places on the planet.  We have experienced dramatic increases in 
extreme rainfall, that many of you on this panel had held the hands and the 
sorrows of community members as they have lost lives and livelihoods in flash 
floods.  We have an increasing risk of extreme temperature and heat, 
particularly in our most densely populated areas of this state, and we have an 
increasing risk of wildfire afflicting many parts of New Jersey. 
 
 
All of these experiences are outlined in our New Jersey Climate 
Science Report.  And, one of those findings within our climate science report 
-- which has been previously presented to this Legislature -- is the effect of 
our climate experience on the ocean.  And, this is really critically important, 
 
 
 
5 
because as a function of our changing climate, our oceans are getting warmer; 
they’re acidifying.  We are seeing changes in habitat.  We’re seeing changes 
in habitat, particularly if you were to look at Chapter 6 of the New Jersey 
Climate Science report.  You would see a recognition of the climate effects 
on the ocean and how those effects are changing the migration patterns of 
certain species -- including menhaden, which is a prey fish for marine 
mammals. 
 
 
And, what is happening?  What is happening with menhaden is, 
as habitat becomes destructed, these prey fish are moving landward.  And, as 
these prey fish move landward, their predators are following them.  Their 
predators include whales.  And, as these prey fish -- particularly at certain 
times of year while migrations are occurring -- as they move landward, whales 
are chasing them.  And, this landward migration is bringing whales into direct 
conflict with a shipping superhighway that resides just off our coast.  A 
shipping superhighway that has experienced great growth -- great growth in 
deliveries to what is the busiest port in the nation.  And, we are seeing 
mortality of whales in many instances because of ship strikes as these marine 
mammals are drawn closer to our shoreline because of changing climate 
conditions that affect the habitat of their prey. 
 
 
Now, we take this deeply seriously, and have been working with 
partners in the Federal government to further study, monitor, and understand 
these interactions.  But, at the same time, what we are also evaluating is, as a 
function of our routine work with Federal counterparts -- so, for example, the 
Department of Interior’s Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, or the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Fisheries Service, also 
known as NOAA Fisheries.  Because each of these entities, alongside the 
 
 
 
6 
Department 
of 
Environmental 
Protection, 
regulates 
infrastructure 
development -- any kind of infrastructure development.  Whether it’s a 
pipeline, a telecommunications cable, an offshore wind project -- without bias 
or preference to any outcome, seeking only to ensure the paradigm that I 
mentioned earlier:  the avoidance of adverse impacts to our environment;  the 
minimization of adverse impacts that cannot be fully avoided; and the 
mitigation, meaning compensation and restoration for environmental 
impacts that are not fully avoided or minimized.  And, we do this work 
together with these Federal entities, with respect to offshore wind.  Which, 
as this panel knows, has been identified as a culprit in the death of marine 
mammals.   
 
 
It is my hope that this panel takes away a really important point:  
The culprit is a changing climate, and our inability -- societally -- to get it 
under control.  The 1980s were the last decade to get climate change under 
control, and we failed, miserably.  And, as a reflection -- as an outcome of 
that -- we have seen increasing temperatures that stress public health; 
increasing rainfall; extreme weather that has devastated communities; rising 
sea levels that will deeply affect our shoreline; and the disruption of our fish 
and wildlife.  That’s what’s on display here. 
 
 
But, that’s not a conclusion that we draw instantaneously 
because our reports and science tell us.  But, through the examination of 
multiple lines of evidence, we examine whether there is a potential for the 
exploration and development of offshore wind facilities to have adverse 
impacts, as I mentioned earlier. And, that happens in two phases:  First, with 
respect to the investigatory phase, because -- as I believe everyone knows, and 
in case there is any mistake about it, there are no offshore wind development 
 
 
 
7 
projects under construction right now, and there are no wind turbines off the 
New Jersey coast, and there won’t be until at least next year, assuming all 
permits that are being pursued are received.  But, there is exploratory work 
that is occurring; surveying of the ocean environment.  And, I believe some 
of the folks here today will speak to that. 
 
 
But, in the work to identify whether that surveying activity could 
have an adverse effect on the environment, there are numerous studies that 
are undertaken, and the Federal government -- not the State government -- 
the Federal government authorizes survey work with certain restrictions and 
monitoring requirements to ensure the avoidance of conflicts with the species 
of concern, whales or otherwise. 
 
 
And, so, what I am trying to convey to you all is that the 
environmental statutory and regulatory framework that this Legislature and 
that our Congress, nationally, have enacted over the years, is performing its 
works.  It’s doing the job of ensuring the avoidance and minimization of 
adverse environmental impacts in the evaluation and potential construction 
of infrastructure facilities -- no question. 
 
 
But, what that statutory framework and regulatory framework 
does not do is protect whales from a changing climate.  That is the job of all 
of us, and it is a deeply necessary job that we perform together to ensure a 
quick and just transition to a cleaner economy.  Because with the continued 
emission of fossil fuels, the continued emission of carbon dioxide and 
methane and other climate pollutants into our environment, these conditions 
affecting whales will only worsen.  Because, our overall climate experience is 
worsening at a horrifying pace. 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
It would be a mistake for this Committee to convene and discuss 
only the implication of marine mammals, because we are in a climate 
emergency, and we all have to act together, and fast with due regard for the 
safety and security of our environment -- the fish and wildlife and all of us 
who occupy, rely upon, and enjoy that environment.  And, we can do that, 
but we shouldn’t be distracted.  We shouldn’t be distracted by 
misinformation.  We should call out disinformation every single time we see 
it.  Because it distracts from the critical work of protecting your constituents 
from a worsening climate experience that will continue to cost us lives and 
jobs and threaten our economy -- especially our coastal economy. 
 
 
So, I implore you to go beyond this inquiry, to consider more 
broadly the work we all must do -- and fast.  Because if we want to save the 
whales -- and, mind you, I invite all newcomers to the cause --  we have to act 
fast, responsibly, with due regard for our constituents and for our wildlife.  
Your DEP is doing that.  Join us, please. 
 
 
I’m happy to take your questions. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Commissioner, thank you so much 
for your time today, and your testimony. 
 
 
You actually addressed a lot of the questions that I have.  I do 
have a few for you, and then I’ll open it up to my colleagues. 
 
 
Given--  If we can just get an idea of what DEP is doing right 
now.  Given that DEP has stated that it’s going to continue to monitor whale 
mortality, can you please explain the criteria that should be closely examined 
to better understand the uptick in whale mortalities on the New Jersey 
coastline, on the entire Atlantic as well? 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
And, to what degree is it the Department’s responsibility to 
identify the reason for increased whale deaths? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  So, in the first instance, it is a Federal 
responsibility, because New Jersey’s jurisdiction and obligation is limited to 
its own geographic scope -- approximately 3 miles off our coast -- in terms of 
what we can enforce and require.  But, we work in concert with our Federal 
agencies in pursuit, in discharging the Federal Coastal Zone Management 
Act.  The NOAA Fisheries is the primary lead agency for investigating the 
unusual mortality event that has been experienced since 2016. 
 
 
So, this is not new.  The unusual mortality event has been 
occurring for several years.  And, what the National Marine Fisheries Service 
examines, among many things -- and this is all available. It’s all available 
directly from NOAA Fisheries, and the DEP has also set up a microsite off of 
our own website to provide all of the occurrence studies and further 
information.  So, you can see what NOAA is tracking and what we are 
monitoring alongside them.  And, then, we also work with the Marine 
Mammal Stranding Center when these occurrences are experienced. 
 
 
So, in terms of understanding cause, I mean, there’s a number of 
things that are done.  So, one of the things that is done -- and, this is done 
by the Federal government -- is examining the carcass of an animal that has 
deceased.  And, so, that is not always possible.  It is not always possible to 
perform what is called a necropsy, given the state of a particular carcass.  But, 
that has occurred over the last several years, and in many, many cases what 
is identified is vessel strike affecting whales.  There is also an uptick in 
dolphin-related mortality that is under investigation by NOAA.  We have 
experienced, often, mortality on this scale before when that dolphin mortality 
 
 
 
10 
was experienced -- I believe last in 2013, but I can double check that.  It was 
identified to be viral among the species. That does occur; these animals do 
get sick.  There are, occasionally, die-offs. 
 
 
But, with respect to the whales, the overwhelming number that 
we’ve seen have been a matter of a vessel strike, as I was explaining, because 
of the tension between the habitat change and the shipping channels. 
 
 
There is also a concern that entanglement of commercial fishing 
equipment also is related to whale mortality, and so you would see that in 
some of the reporting as well. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you. 
 
 
Does the Department have sufficient funding and staff allocated 
to this issue? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  So, the Department’s funding for fish and 
wildlife programs is primarily driven by two sources:  Federal dollars and from 
dollars from hunting and fishing licenses.  There is a minimal State 
appropriation, if that’s your question. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  What can we do to ensure a better 
maintenance of our oceans, given the circumstances?  What can we, as 
representatives with the Legislature, do to assist DEP in this obviously very 
distressing-- 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  I think, first and foremost, that this 
Committee can -- and should, if you haven’t already -- reviewed our Global 
Warming Response Act, 80 by ’50 report. 
 
 
So, in 2007, and then updated in 2019, this Legislature passed 
the Global Warming Response Act.  The Global Warming Response Act 
requires the Department of Environmental Protection to evaluate our 
 
 
 
11 
progress toward reducing climate emissions toward a goal that this Legislature 
set.  That goal is to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide and other climate 
pollutants by 80% by the year 2050.  We are woefully short of reaching that 
goal.  The legislation required that the Department of Environmental 
Protection analyze our progress and identify all of the pathways -- regulatory, 
incentive-based, legislative -- that could be pursued to effect meaningful 
climate action. 
 
 
The solution for our oceans is not just a New Jersey solution, of 
course.  It’s a global solution.  But, we have to do our part by transitioning 
ourselves to a cleaner economy.  That report tells you how.  And, so, to the 
extent that anyone on this panel or others would like to meet with the DEP 
about the recommendations that are made there, we are happy to do that. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you, Commissioner, I’ll 
certainly take you up on that. 
 
 
I don’t want to monopolize all the time; we have a lot of 
testimony today. 
 
 
I would like to open up to my colleagues for any questions or 
comments. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I do have a question. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Please, go ahead. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  So, Commissioner, you made 
a statement during your opening statement that you made certain 
affirmations that are very difficult for us here to understand without greater 
clarity. 
 
 
Primarily, with respect to the movement of prey fish or the 
specific temperature changes within certain regions of ocean water that the 
 
 
 
12 
science community believes has created different migratory patterns for 
dolphins and whales.  Am I correct in that assumption -- in that interpretation 
of what you said? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  I think that the better way to understand 
it is not so much of the effect of the ocean on the whale population -- marine 
mammal population -- itself, but rather, it’s effect on the smaller prey fish 
that they chase. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Right.  So, obviously, your 
assertion is the movement of prey fish have caused large marine mammals to 
choose different migratory patterns or different areas of the ocean in which 
they occupy to hunt for food. 
 
 
Is that correct? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Well, the -- it’s the prey fish that are 
moving --  
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Yes-- 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  --and the whales are just hungry. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Right, so, it’s your assertion 
that the movement of prey fish have caused marine mammals to choose 
different areas of the ocean to hunt in. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  They’re altering course, so to speak. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  So, it’s difficult for us, 
obviously not being scientists -- I don’t know that anyone on this panel is a 
scientist, or anybody in the room, for that matter, except for the people who 
were invited to speak. 
 
 
It’s a little hard for us to just accept the affirmation.  So, if there 
is some proof -- scientific or otherwise -- that these animals are, in fact, 
 
 
 
13 
choosing different regions of the ocean to swim in and it’s causing either 
strikes or other sorts of behavior that’s causing them to run into a situation 
where they’re being killed, we would like to know that.  We would like to 
have that proof because we’re here for marine mammal deaths, right?  The 
climate change issue is a greater issue that we debate every day, we talk about, 
we try to figure out how to tackle that issue. 
 
 
We’re here today to find out why are these animals dying, right?  
So, it’s a little hard when you make the affirmation that the ocean is changing 
and its causing the prey fish to move here, mammals to go here, and they’re 
creating situations where these animals are being faced with death where they 
wouldn’t otherwise because of climate change.  It’s a little hard for us to just 
assume that that affirmation is real. 
 
 
So, I hope at some point, Mr. Chairman, that we have a scientist 
who can confirm your affirmation.  Because, if we just accept your affirmation 
as fact, then this debate is over. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  To be clear, Assemblyman, I am not asking 
you to trust me, I’m asking you to trust the hundreds of scientists who already 
work for you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN 
BARRANCO: 
 
No, 
that’s 
not 
true, 
Commissioner.  Everyone here is begging to trust you, that’s why you’re the 
Commissioner of DEP. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  And, that’s why we prepared for you the 
New Jersey specific report on climate change, and it’s effect upon our state. 
 
 
Because you hear one horrifying piece of information after 
another from the global scientific community -- they’re right, they’re not 
making it up.  They’re scientists, they’re putting it into a report and even 
 
 
 
14 
simpler reports for policy makers to help convey the science.  That’s not 
hidden from view; that’s fully available, you just have to choose to read it. 
 
 
And, so, we did that here for New Jersey in particular, because 
the International Panel on Climate Change -- the IPCC -- and the U.N., they 
prepare reports that are very broad in nature about a global experience.  So, 
we took that information and we evaluated the New Jersey specific 
experience, and, in 2020, we delivered New Jersey’s Climate Science Report.  
We updated it for you last year, so the information I am offering you about 
oceans -- it’s in there.  The science is there, it’s available.  It’s also available 
on our website -- many reports, that could be read and shared.  We share 
them routinely. 
 
 
The same is true of NOAA Fisheries.  They, too, prepare the 
information.  It’s not unavailable; it’s not as though there’s a lack of science.  
There is plenty of science available-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I agree with you-- 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  --that, in effect, says exactly what I’m 
telling you. 
 
 
But, you don’t have to trust me, you could-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  That’s my -- well, that’s why-- 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  You can trust the scientists -- I certainly 
do. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  That’s why I bring it up, 
Commissioner. 
 
 
Your affirmation of the movement of prey fish and the 
temperature changes that cause these migratory differences that are causing  
 
 
 
15 
-- see, again, we’re going to face, in this Committee today, we’re going to face 
convenient and inconvenient facts.  That’s why we’re here. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Yes, I understand.  I face inconvenient 
facts every single day. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Depending on how you feel 
about this -- but, at the end of the day, Commissioner, what we’re here for is, 
why are we getting multiple-ton mammals on our beaches? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  So, I just explained that to you. 
 
 
I think there’s something important to understand.  Number 1, 
I’m not offering you a personal affirmation.  I am offering you a summary of 
sound, reliable science.  You can choose to review, in detail, the information 
that I’ve summarized for you.  But, I’m not asking you to accept my personal 
affirmation. 
 
 
And, to be clear, I don’t have feelings about it.  I am not legally, 
statutorily, or regulatorily empowered to have feelings about it.  My job, the 
job of the Department of Environmental Protection, is to ensure the sound 
management of our natural resources and, in the case of development, to, 
under the laws that this Legislature has created over the years, ensure that as 
development projects on land, in water -- wherever they may be that could 
disrupt protected environmental features, including the habitat of marine life 
-- that that activity is pursued in a manner that is responsible, using the best 
management practices. 
 
 
We are, at DEP, chockfull of professionals who know these 
things -- deeply.  And, our work, it is not outcome-determinative.  It does not 
depend on the changing tides of public sentiment.  It doesn’t depend upon 
the advocacy of environmental activists long-engaged in this work; nor, does 
 
 
 
16 
it depend on the sudden interest of newcomers interested in protecting 
whales.  Rather, it depends only upon an evaluation of sound science and 
application of a regulatory scheme that treats every single piece of 
infrastructure the same. 
 
 
Quite honestly, we don’t care whether it’s an oil rig or a pipeline 
or a telecom cable or a natural gas facility or a wind turbine or an electric 
transmission cable (indiscernible).  Every single piece of infrastructure is 
treated the same, because that’s fairness.  And, so, we embody -- or, rather, 
apply -- that principle in the evaluation of whether or not to authorize a 
particular activity.  So, it doesn’t matter how we feel. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Thank you for your time, 
Commissioner. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you, Commissioner. 
 
 
Again, you were invited here today as a subject-matter expert, 
and we certainly rely on the DEP for the information that we’re receiving 
here today.  We do have many scientists that will be coming to testify. 
 
 
So, if there are no other questions-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  I do, Chairman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  OK. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  If you don’t mind. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Yes, please. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Mr. LaTourette, how are you 
doing today? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  I am doing well; it’s nice to see you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Good to see you again, it’s 
been a while. 
 
 
 
17 
 
 
Quick question for you: Are you familiar with the lawsuit 
brought on by the Murphy Administration in 2018 that says that the Murphy 
Administration alleges that using sound equipment to map the ocean floor is 
very dangerous to marine mammals and should be stopped in the Federal 
court level? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  I think that you might be referring to -- I 
think what you might be referring to is offshore oil exploration.  Can you just 
be a little more specific? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Sure, yes. 
 
 
Offshore oil and things of that nature, but they’re using the same 
equipment from my understanding -- or is it different equipment, is my 
question to you. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Oh, no, it’s not the same. 
 
 
So, you mean -- when you say the same equipment, let me just 
make sure that I’m understanding the question, so I answer correctly.  Are 
you asking if whether the oil and gas industry uses the exact same equipment,    
in-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  As far as the sound mapping 
on the ocean floor.  The equipment-- Is it similar?  Is it the same?  Is it 
different? 
 
 
And, why would -- not to say why you (indiscernible) or know 
what the Governor is thinking -- but what changes (indiscernible) from 18 to 
21 that says that this equipment does not affect the mammals? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  I don’t think that the Governor has said 
that, but even if he did, it wouldn’t matter -- with all due respect to my boss, 
 
 
 
18 
my job is independent of his, and it’s to protect our environment, irrespective 
of any gubernatorial initiative. 
 
 
And, the--  But, I think the distinction that you might be trying 
to draw out, Assemblyman, has to do with the different types of surveying 
equipment that can be used.  And, so, one of the things that’s available that 
I’m going to -- the microsite off of DEP’s website that I mentioned earlier -- 
our most recent study is on the effects of that acoustic monitoring. 
 
 
And, so, I think the distinction that you might be identifying is 
the difference between the type of surveying work that is being done for the 
evaluation associated with potential development of offshore wind facilities 
and more seismic-related surveying. 
 
 
So, those are two different things.  And, one of the most recent 
studies was classifying these different types of equipment, because it’s not all 
one type of equipment; multiple different types.  And, specifically for the--  
To evaluate weather, the type of sonar that is used would be disruptive to 
renounce, and it’s not.  And, that’s what-- Just, again, not a personal 
affirmation, just a summary of what the science says, the type of sonar being 
used to evaluate the ocean environment is not the type that would be likely 
to adversely affect these marine mammals. 
 
 
Now, there are types that could adversely affect marine 
mammals, but those are not the types being used.  But, again, don’t take my 
word for it.  I can follow up and go over a printed copy of the study if folks 
can’t find it easily on the website, but it’s there.  But, there has been some 
misinformation swirling -- disinformation, really -- that sonar use is somehow 
confusing marine mammals.  That is not the case. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  So, that’s not the case? 
 
 
 
19 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  No. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  So, when you say that -- and, 
two things can’t be true, I’m not an attorney, I know you have the legal 
background -- but I know if we’re in court and I ask you what’s affecting them 
and you’re saying, “It’s definitely not sonar,” but we don’t know what’s 
affecting them. 
 
 
So, those two things can’t be true.  If you know for certain that 
it’s not sonar, but then on the other hand you don’t know what’s affecting 
them, do you think that there’s an opportunity that we need to take a step 
back, 60, 90, 120 days, and try to figure out what’s affecting them, if you 
can’t answer that question for certain? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  We know what’s affecting them.  It’s not 
unknown.  It’s an interesting and very kind of circular inquiry, the idea that 
we don’t know. 
 
 
We do know.  We do know.  The changes to the environment in 
which these mammals exist is what is causing them--  Now, there are multiple 
pieces of that equation.  There are multiple lines of evidence that are 
evaluated in order to hone in on cause. 
 
 
So, by evaluating the sonar question, you’re looking at these 
multiple lines of evidence.  You’re looking at the changes in habitat; you’re 
looking at the migration patterns; you’re looking at the underwater 
environment and the things being used there, like the sonar.  And, together, 
you form a picture.  This is how science is done. 
 
 
And, so, it’s not an absence of information at all.  It’s not as 
though we don’t know what’s happening.  We understand what’s happening. 
 
 
 
20 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  OK, so, if we know what’s 
happening, and then we’re going to drill to build these wind farms, is that 
going to affect the habitat also?  You’re saying that’s not going to affect their 
habitat.  So, hundreds and thousands of wind farms are not going to affect 
their habitat and cause them to either go -- come closer, because they’re 
running from it, or it’s not going to bother them because they’re not hearing 
it, and they’ll just get run over by ships? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  So, the way that that environmental 
assessment and regulation works is, let’s take any type of infrastructure 
project -- offshore oil rig, offshore wind turbine, a port -- anything that goes 
in the water.  We evaluate the impact, the potential impact, upon species of 
concern.  And, there are two ways that that happens:  under the Endangered 
Species Act, and under the Marine Mammals Protection Act. 
 
 
And, so, in each of these inquiries, there are studies that are 
performed based on multiple data points that are collected all of the time -- 
and, I think some of the other speakers will speak to this, the myriad of data 
points that are available that are continually assessed, and how we do that.  
But, under these two pieces of law, the Federal government, with 
participation through the State, evaluates the species that are present in a 
particular affected area where a project may be undertaken, and then the 
further analysis of how the development of a project could affect a species, 
and then that is all presented in what is called a “biological opinion.” 
 
 
So, there is, for example, a biological opinion that was prepared, 
released within the last few months, relative to Ocean Wind 1, which is the 
proposed wind farm off the coast of Atlantic City.  And, that biological 
opinion identifies whether there would be adverse impacts that would affect 
 
 
 
21 
the species.  And, that biological opinion concluded that there would be no 
likely adverse impact that threatened the species -- meaning, that would kill 
them -- but, rather, there would be temporary disturbance to the underwater 
environment.  Now, that’s the case with anything.  It’s the case when you 
build a port, a bridge, all of the telecommunications and pipelines that serve 
us every day that go under water.  There is a temporary disturbance, but the 
work is performed in a way so as not to kill anything -- that’s not allowed. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  So, are we familiar with the-- 
And, I’m not sure if you are or not, but I’m sure (indiscernible) the right 
whale? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Yes, I am. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  And, are you familiar with 
what the United States Department of Commerce said about them, and the 
fact that there is, at this point, 350 of those left?  And, the focus on this 
memo -- well, the memo I’m speaking of -- was dated May 13 of 2022. 
 
 
So, this may disrupt the abundance and availability of the typical 
right whale’s food.  The focus of this memo on this operation will fix such 
focuses as the (indiscernible) oceanography, and the impacts of driving these 
whales and their prey to disruption and possible extinction. 
 
 
So, would we focus on this possible extinction now that we’re 
down to less than 350 from 450 in 2011?  And, now, this is possibly going 
to drive them out.  So, you’re not concerned about that particular mammal, 
or are you concerned about all mammals? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  When you say “this,” what is the “this” 
you’re referring to? 
 
 
 
22 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  This is as far as the mammal 
is concerned, the right whale?  Or you mean-- 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  When you say, “This will drive them out,” 
what is the subject? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  The development of ocean 
wind. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Ocean Wind 1 and the project? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  In general, not just one 
particular project -- in general. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  So, you can’t make a generalized 
conclusion about all of offshore wind. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN 
McCLELLAN: 
 
I’m 
not, 
I’m 
not 
(indiscernible) generalized question, I’m talking about ocean wind, in 
particular in New Jersey.  But, I’m just talking about this ocean wind as it is, 
not in general. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  So, what the biologists do is they evaluate 
the presence of a species in a particular area where an activity may occur.  
And, so, with respect to Ocean Wind 1 off of Atlantic City -- just sticking 
with that example -- what I just described a few moments ago, the biological 
opinion-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  I’m sorry, Commissioner, can we 
have you switch your mic?  Because we’re getting a lot of static up here.  Can 
we get your testimony? 
 
 
Thank you so much; sorry for that. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  So -- is that better?  OK. 
 
 
So, maybe I’m too close.  Is that better? 
 
 
 
23 
 
 
What I was explaining a few moments ago about the Endangered 
Species Act and the biological opinion that was rendered -- that biological 
opinion examines the -- it’s still happening.  Is there something I should -- 
sorry. 
 
 
Any better?  OK, all right. 
 
 
That biological opinion examined the very question you’re 
asking.  Because this is the routine work of environmental governments -- this 
is what occurs in every single development scenario.  And, it occurs project 
by project.  There is not a sweeping analysis that says, “All offshore wind is 
good and will have no bad impacts.”  That’s not what anyone is saying. 
 
 
Every single thing we do has an environmental externality -- 
every single thing.  For example, we’re creating pollution right now, holding 
this hearing in the service of some purpose.  We’ve decided societally that 
we’ll do that; that we will allow the creation of air pollution that harms 
people’s lungs to hold this hearing.  And, the DEP manages that pollution 
and ensures its reduction. 
 
 
To the same end, in the development of in-water facilities of any 
kind -- offshore wind included -- there is an analysis of potential impact upon 
species, and that biological opinion evaluated the right whale.  And, it 
concluded that it’s not likely to cause mortality.  Now, may there be some 
temporary habitat disruption?  Yes, absolutely.  That occurs in the 
development of everything. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Last question, and I 
appreciate your taking the time. 
 
 
So, you’re familiar with the Bureau of Ocean Energy and 
Management, correct? 
 
 
 
24 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  So, they had a report in March 
of ’21 that building these ocean wind turbines will basically have no impact 
on reducing global warming.  Are you familiar with that? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  That does not sound like a statement that 
BOEM would make. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  March 21st of 2021. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Is there a specific line that you want to 
point out? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  In their whole report -- if you 
can gain the report, it’s there.  Their wind offshore project, final 
environmental impact Volume 2 on March 2021, page A-66, third paragraph. 
 
 
So, (indiscernible)-- 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  And, yes, what does it say? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  BOEM -- is what they are 
known as -- conclude in 2021 that the building all of these offshore wind 
farms will basically have no impact on reducing global warming. 
 
 
So, if we’re trying to reduce global warming, and everybody is all 
about BOEM, and going off and using them, they have a report in 2021 that 
says that’s not going to happen. 
 
 
So, if it’s going to be de minimis, why should we go and spend 
billions of dollars to affect a billion-dollar industry?  Because you mentioned 
Atlantic County.  I’m going to talk about Cape May County, what Cape May 
County does for the State of New Jersey and does for the world, because it 
has a billion-dollar fishing industry-- 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Yes it does-- 
 
 
 
25 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  --and billion-dollar tourism 
industry.  And, at this point in time, we’re going to render that pretty much 
done. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Absolutely not. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Completely.  If-- 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  No.  I’m sorry, Assemblyman, I don’t mean 
to interrupt you, but that is false. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  I don’t want to go back and 
forth with you, I don’t mean to interrupt you, I’m just-- I talked to the 
fishermen. And, I’m telling you that they’re not-- They’re saying that they’re 
going to have problems getting insurance because they are not going to be 
allowed to fish around these wind farm areas, so that’s going to destroy their 
economy.  Talking about the economy and tourism, that I’m very familiar 
with in Cape May County, and what’s going to cause issues with the residents 
there and the tourism there. 
 
 
So, that’s their opinion, and you have a different opinion as you 
said.  But, let’s circle back to what BOEM has said, and you then can give 
your opinion as far as the rest of that -- I didn’t mean to cut you off, so, I 
apologize. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  I think what’s important is to recognize, 
as we all should, the difference between fear and fact. 
 
 
The world is changing, and it’s changing rapidly.  And, it’s 
changing rapidly as a function of all of the carbon and climate pollution that 
we have placed into the atmosphere.  That’s not an opinion; that’s not a 
feeling.  That’s a fact.  And, that is showing really adverse changes all 
throughout our state and the world.  And, we have to change that.  We have 
 
 
 
26 
to take the steps that will reduce the emissions of those climate pollutants, 
or else our climate experience only gets worse, and much, much, much worse. 
 
 
The biggest threat to our commercial fishing industry is not the 
erection of new facilities a mile apart in the water.  It’s the fact that the very 
ocean itself is changing.  We did that.  We have to solve for that. 
 
 
Now, to the point of any one individual wind turbine itself -- 
correcting the course of human history in terms of the emissions and climate 
pollution, of course it would have a negligible impact.  But that’s not the 
point.  The point is to gradually move from a fossil fuel-based economy that 
has created the very adverse conditions that this panel has organized to 
appraise to a cleaner economy that does not cause those conditions.  But, 
that happens incrementally over time.  No one wind turbine -- and, no one 
wind farm -- will change that outcome. 
 
 
I imagine that that is the point that report is making.  But, it 
misses the--  It’s the forest for the trees.  Because, the point of climate action 
-- of a just transition to a cleaner economy -- is to change the overall makeup 
of our energy portfolio to one that pollutes less over time, so that we avoid a 
worsening of these conditions. 
 
 
So, no, one wind farm isn’t going to do it. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  I’m sorry, one last question. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Go ahead. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  This is my last one, I promise. 
 
 
How do you feel about nuclear?  Because I’ve been told nuclear 
is the most cleanest energy.  How do you feel about that? 
 
 
And, then I’m done. 
 
 
 
27 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Again, my job is not to have feelings about 
it. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Your opinion. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  My job is to look at the science and the 
law, and very clearly-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  I want to stay on topic, too, so if we 
can-- 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  And, very clearly, nuclear energy is cleaner 
than fossil fuel energy.  It has lots of other negative environmental 
externalities like disposal issues; like potential harm to communities if not 
managed well.  Because everything has environmental externality -- 
everything. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Commissioner, I know we’re coming 
up on about an hour right now, so-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I’m sorry, Chairman, one more 
thing -- I just want to-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  I’ll allow one more question, and 
then I do want to move onto the next-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  No, it’s not a question, it’s a 
statement. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  I’d like to (indiscernible) a lot of 
statements after -- after the Committee-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I just want to address 
something that the Commissioner said, it’s going to be very quick. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  All right, if we could make it very 
quick, please. 
 
 
 
28 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  So, Commissioner, you made 
a--  After we spoke, and I had brought up to you something that I thought 
was not necessarily a fact, and you had made an affirmation, and that was 
the exchange between you and I, and we got through it. 
 
 
But, you said something a moment ago that I think is crucial to 
the purpose of this day, and that is, you said -- and, you’re addressing the 
question of Assemblyman McClellan -- you said that there was a biological 
opinion obtained for a certain (indiscernible) purpose.  That is the reason 
we’re here.  Because a lot of what we’re doing is based on opinions -- whether 
they be based in fact or not, very few of us know. 
 
 
Hopefully, we’ve assembled scientists who are going to share that 
with us, but it’s crucial what you said:  It’s a biological opinion that caused 
you to move forward on the first farm outside of Atlantic City. 
 
 
So, we need to get to the root of those opinions.  That’s why 
we’re here. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Assemblyman, we have scientists 
here today, so--   
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  I think-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  I’ll give you last comments and then 
-- yes, just go ahead Commissioner. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  I think you’re getting tripped up by 
semantics, Assemblyman. 
 
 
When I use the phrase, “biological opinion,” that is a statutorily 
and regulatorily defined document.  A “biological opinion” is an outcome of 
an evaluation required under the Endangered Species Act.  It is a scientific 
 
 
 
29 
determination -- it is a term of (indiscernible).  It is not someone’s random 
opinion; it is the conclusion of scientific study. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  It’s not a random opinion, but 
it’s an opinion-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Guys, I want to -- please, I allowed 
you -- Commissioner, if you (indiscernible), then we’re going to move on, 
thanks. 
 
 
Commissioner, do you have anything else? 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  I don’t think so; I don’t think so. 
 
 
I think I have one reflection, which is, if what you’re interested 
in doing -- really interested in doing -- is saving the whales, you need to focus 
more holistically.  Because what appears to be happening is that we are 
pursuing an inquiry about why whale mortality is occurring. 
 
 
There is an abundance of scientific information to answer that 
question for you.  Whether you like the answer to that question or not is 
irrelevant, just like my feelings in my work are irrelevant. 
 
 
But, what I hope for in this exchange is a grounded and 
reasonable and scientifically-informed dialogue, because that’s the way that 
we do our work every day at the DEP.  One that looks at the multiplicity of 
factors that are leading to changes in our ocean and our environment writ 
large.  I look for a holistic and meaningful dialogue, not one that tries to 
identify a villain and point at it, but instead really, truly, tries to save the 
whales. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Commissioner, thank you for being 
here today.  Thank you for your testimony. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Thank you. 
 
 
 
30 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  I’m sure if any of our colleagues have 
any follow ups, we’ll contact you directly. 
 
 
And, thank you again. 
 
 
MR. LaTOURETTE:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Appreciate it. 
 
 
OK, so, we’re going to move on to our next testimony.  This will 
be in person:  Josh Kohut, Ph.D., Professor at the Center for Ocean Observing 
Leadership; Danielle Brown, Ph.D. student at Rutgers, also affiliated with 
Gotham Whale and the Marine Mammal Stranding Center; and, Sheila 
Dean, Marine Mammal Stranding Center, the Director. 
 
 
Thank you so much for joining us here today. 
 
 
OK, please -- whoever would like to start first, please go ahead.  
Just make sure the microphones aren’t on at the same time, I think that might 
be what is causing a little bit of the static background. 
D A N I E L L E   B R O W N:  How is that? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Great. 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Hello, and thank you to the Chair, Vice-Chair, 
and Committee members for inviting me to speak today. 
 
 
My name is Danielle Brown, I am the Director of Research for 
Gotham Whale.  I am also a Ph.D. candidate in ecology and evolution at 
Rutgers University.  I hold a bachelor’s degree in biology from Stockton 
University, and a master’s degree in environmental science and policy from 
George Mason University. 
 
 
I have lived in New Jersey for my entire life, and I have dedicated 
the last 10 years to whales.  My experience with whales first began when I 
formerly worked as a field stranding technician at the Marine Mammal 
 
 
 
31 
Stranding Center.  This was back in 2013, and it was here that I first became 
interested in humpback whales specifically, following increased sighting and 
stranding reports.  At this time, only 10 years ago, it was confusing to the 
public to see humpback whales feeding in our area.  They assumed that they 
did not belong here and that they were in distress, and, for this reason, I 
concentrated my entire master’s thesis specifically on humpback whales, 
including their population characteristics and impacts from human activities. 
 
 
I collaborated with researchers throughout the western North 
Atlantic to learn more about the whales that we see here, which has led to 
several peer-reviewed publications.  As the Director of Research for Gotham 
Whale, I have helped to document thousands of sightings of more than 300 
individual humpback whales off New York and New Jersey. 
 
 
I have spent hundreds of hours on the water, and I think I’m one 
of the few people in this room who has personally witnessed what whales look 
like when they have been struck by a vessel.  And, I’m not talking about 
stranded animals, I’m talking about live animals feeding.  I have seen 
humpback whales missing body parts; I have seen humpback whales actively 
bleeding from injuries; and I’ve also seen old propeller wounds.  And, 
unfortunately, there are several whales that I have seen alive and also dead. 
 
 
The good news is that we have learned a lot about these 
humpback whales in just a short period of time.  To understand the dynamics 
of humpback whales in the New York Bight, you must first be familiar with 
the entire population.  Humpback whales in the Western North Atlantic are 
highly migratory.  They move between winter breeding grounds near the 
equator, and feeding areas in the gulf of Maine, Canada, Greenland, and the 
Eastern North Atlantic.  These feeding grounds are genetically unique 
 
 
 
32 
populations.  Mothers exhibit maternal sight fidelity; they do return to the 
same feeding areas over and over again with their calves, and those calves 
typically return to the same feeding ground as well when they become 
independent. 
 
 
However, as you all know, we now see humpback whales 
consistently in the New York Bight and in the Greater Mid-Atlantic -- outside 
of these typical feeding and breeding areas.  There is limited evidence 
suggesting that humpback whales occurred here consistently prior to the 
1990s, so their present-day occurrence here in the New York Bight may be a 
more recent phenomenon. 
 
 
In the 1990s, humpback whales increased their presence in the 
Mid Atlantic, notably off Virginia and North Carolina during the winter.  
Most were found to be juveniles, and it was suggested that these were making 
a partial migration -- since it was winter -- and they were not at breeding age 
yet.  However, there were a few summer sightings during this time, mainly 
off Cape May, New Jersey.  In conjunction with this increase in young 
humpback whales in the Mid Atlantic, there was an increase in strandings.  
There were 58 humpback whale strandings documented from New Jersey to 
Florida from 1985 to 2000.  These whales were almost exclusively juveniles, 
and many showed signs of ship strike or entanglement.  At this time, it was 
theorized that the increase in young humpback whales close to shore near 
urban areas and overlapping with human activities was causing that uptick in 
strandings. 
 
 
Following this event, there were two additional spikes in 
humpback whale strandings.  In 2005, 34 minke, humpback, thin, and sperm 
whales stranded from Canada to Maryland.  And, from 2006 to 2007, 48 
 
 
 
33 
humpback whales stranded from Maine to Virginia.  Humpback whale 
strandings have been an issue of concern along the east coast for nearly four 
decades.  Although there were some summer humpback whale sightings off 
Cape May in the 1990s, systematic surveys from 2008 to 2009 still found 
the species to occur mainly during winter off southern New Jersey.  These 
surveys also found a low number of humpback whales -- there were only 17 
sightings over two years.   However, beginning in 2004, humpback whales 
had actually increased their presence near the shelf break in the New York 
Bight, and, beginning in 2011, opportunistic sightings of humpback whales 
increased in the New York-New Jersey Harbor Estuary.  Since then, sightings 
have continued to increase, and humpback whales are now the most common 
species. 
 
 
Small numbers of humpback whales can now be found feeding 
in the New York Bight year-round, but are typically most common during 
spring, summer, and fall.  Many are juveniles that belong to the gulf of Maine 
feeding population, but, in most cases, we don’t know what population they 
belong to.  Generally, the youngest whales are found close to shore, while 
older animals are found off-shore.  Whales are commonly seen service feeding 
in and around shipping channels leading into the port of New York and New 
Jersey, and their presence has become consistent enough to generate an 
expanding whale-watching industry. 
 
 
Along with this recent increase in humpback whales in the New 
York Bight, there has been another spike in strandings:  191 humpback 
whales have stranded since 2016 from Maine to Florida.  And, similar to these 
past mortality events, most of the stranded humpback whales have been 
juveniles, and many have been hit by ships or have scars from entanglements. 
 
 
 
34 
 
 
The most recent mortality event may have begun in 2016, but 
strandings and interactions between humpback whales and human activities 
have been on the rise long before that.  There are still many, many things 
that we don’t know.  Although we do have a substantial amount of 
opportunistic data from northern New Jersey and some from Cape May, there 
have been no coast-wide systematic surveys for marine mammals along the 
Jersey Shore.  The most recent surveys that I mentioned earlier occurred 15 
years ago, and focused specifically on southern New Jersey.  Therefore, we 
cannot properly evaluate the abundance or distribution of humpback whales 
and other species here. 
 
 
We also don’t know how humpback whales are using the entire 
coast of New Jersey, whether they use waters currently planned for offshore 
wind construction, or even what environmental factors influence their 
distribution here.  We don’t know why some humpback whales are spending 
time in the New York Bight during the feeding season when the rest of the 
population is still found north on those main feeding grounds.  (indiscernible) 
whale distribution is largely influenced by prey availability, and humpback 
whales have been documented feeding on at least two different prey species 
here.  However, we do not have enough data at this point to know which prey 
species are most important, or how changes in prey abundance have 
influenced the increase in humpback whales. 
 
 
Lastly, although we know that humpback whales and other 
species are hit by ships, and do become entangled in fishing gear off of New 
Jersey -- and also in the greater Mid Atlantic -- we do not know what types of 
ships are involved, or where these accidents happen.  Near the entrance to 
the port of New York and New Jersey, humpback whales often overlap with 
 
 
 
35 
cargo ships and cruise ships, which are both common sources of whale 
mortality around the world.  But, these interactions with whales are rarely 
reported, which makes it extremely difficult to understand and prevent them. 
 
 
Ultimately, the takeaway here is that things are changing rapidly 
in New Jersey, especially when it comes to humpback whales, and there are 
many data gaps.  These whales are now a consistent part of our ecosystem.  
We have seen an increase in humpback whale usage of the Mid Atlantic over 
the last 40 years, and in the New York Bight over the last 15 years.  The more 
whales that we see, and the more time that they spend here, will lead to more 
overlap with human activities.  If this trend continues, there will be a 
continued increase in strandings in our waters regardless of what industry is 
operating off of our coastline. 
 
 
For me, the answer is more research.  My hope is that the State 
of New Jersey will finally focus resources towards the study and management 
of humpback whales and other whale species to fill in these knowledge gaps 
as they continue to increase along our coastline. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you. 
J O S H   T.  K O H U T, Ph.D.:  Good morning. 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman Tully, Committee members, for the 
opportunity to come and speak with you today. 
 
 
My name is Dr. Josh T. Kohut.  I am a professor of oceanography 
at Rutgers, your state university.  I’ve lived in New Jersey for over 40 years -
- I couldn’t believe it when I counted that number.  I can’t be that old, but I 
am. 
 
 
 
36 
 
 
This morning I am going to provide comments, given my 
expertise in ocean technology and ocean science.  I have a bachelor’s degree 
in physics; and a mathematics minor from the College of Charleston; and I 
hold a Ph.D. in physical oceanography from Rutgers University.  I have 
published over 80 peer-reviewed papers in the field of ocean technology and 
science.  For the last 25 years, I have been part of the leadership of the Rutgers 
University Center for Ocean Observing Leadership -- or RU COOL. 
 
 
RU COOL is recognized as a world leader in ocean science, 
technology, and prediction.  For more than three decades, our faculty, 
technical staff, and students have worked together through local, state, 
national, and international partnerships to conduct ocean research and 
support applications, decision making, and management of our ocean 
resources. 
 
 
Given my expertise, I will focus on the dynamic nature of our 
ocean as it relates to the distribution of whales and their prey.  Characteristics 
of the ocean off our coast undergo remarkable variabilities, from days to 
weeks, to seasons, years, and decades.  The physical oceanography of this 
region is influenced by fresh water that comes out from our rivers and 
estuaries; shelf-break canyons; the gulf stream well offshore; and tropical and 
winter storms.  No other part of the global ocean undergoes greater surface 
temperature changes from winter to summer than the ocean off our coast.  
The seasonal changes lead to formation of cold bottom water that persists 
throughout the entire summer that we call the cold pool -- a feature that 
occasionally makes its way all the way to the beach in the summer, changing 
surf temperatures dramatically.  You may have experienced that in your own 
experiences on the shore. 
 
 
 
37 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  We have. 
 
 
DR. KOHUT:  This intense ocean variability drives an equally 
variable ecosystem, from the plankton algae up through the fish and marine 
mammals.  These changing ocean conditions, combined with specific habitat 
preference of local and migratory species can cause their distribution and that 
of their prey to vary significantly, from week to week, season to season, and 
year to year. 
 
 
Furthermore, our coastal waters are situated in one of the most 
rapidly warming regions in the world.  Ocean warming has led to vulnerability 
among approximately half of the U.S. northeast shelf species.  And, the 
dominant response of fish to ocean warming has been to shift their 
distribution to the north. 
 
 
Off New Jersey, Atlantic mackerel and herring abundance are at 
or near historic lows.  In contrast, Atlantic menhaden, or bunker, abundance 
has spiked upwards in the region since the 1980s, and on-water observations 
suggest that they are staying later into the winter.  This winter distribution 
of menhaden is closer to shore than historic mackerel and herring 
populations, and overlaps with areas where juvenile humpbacks have been 
observed feeding at the surface. 
 
 
I pause here just for a minute just to let you know that the 
testimony I’m providing-- We provided written, and there are references to 
all these statements.  So, there is background information; there are stock 
assessments that are done on these species, and we reference those for you.  
If you need further information, just contact us and we can get that to you. 
 
 
So, now, more than ever, it is critical that we consider the 
scientific evidence and the complexity of the entire system before drawing 
 
 
 
38 
conclusions about the cause of individual strandings.  Many factors -- natural 
and human-related -- impact ecosystem health.  Decisions need to be based 
on scientific data, solid evidence, and consider the entirety of factors 
contributing to observed or perceived impacts.  I encourage you to consider 
all the oceanographic variability impacting the habitats utilized by these 
whales. 
 
 
So, how can the scientific research community help?  New Jersey 
is a global leader in ocean and ecological observing and prediction.  As I sit 
here with you today, we are monitoring our ocean with satellites in space, 
radar networks along the coast, and underwater robots beneath the surface.  
All of the data generated by these systems are sent to publicly available 
websites for access to different users and communities.  Thanks to the effort 
across the entire research community, baseline monitoring of many ocean 
variables has been in place for decades, and continues today. 
 
 
For example, an autonomous underwater robot, right now, is 
patrolling the waters off our coast, sending back data on marine mammal 
detections and the ocean conditions around those detections in real time.  I 
can access it from my phone.  Additionally, there are communities of experts, 
including public, private, and academic researchers; commercial and 
recreational fishers; among others, who are ready to utilize available data and 
their own expertise to inform your policy decisions.  Despite what many have 
said in recent months, I am here to confirm to all of you that the scientific 
community’s responsibility is to the data and sound methods that pass the 
rigor of peer review.  Regardless of the source of funding, over the past 25 
years, my projects addressed research and monitoring objectives by scientific 
analysis of publicly available datasets.  Rutgers ensures that executed grants 
 
 
 
39 
and contracts with funders protects my intellectual property, and open 
communication of results, including peer-reviewed publications. 
 
 
Simply put, I am qualified to do the research that I undertake, 
and the output of my research is supported by scientific evidence and 
methodology that passes the rigor of expert peer review. 
 
 
In summary, the ocean is highly variable, and we have the 
technology and expertise to document that variability with timely, quality-
controlled data.  It is imperative to consider the evidence associated with all 
potential factors of this ongoing UME, including dynamic oceanographic 
conditions, before placing blame toward any specific entity or activity.  I hope 
that a science-driven policy and decision making on this issue is the goal; that 
you will seek out the communities of experts who have experience studying 
and observing the relevant processes off the New Jersey coast.  When seeking 
sources of information, consider their experience and record of producing 
scientifically defensible conclusions given the evidence.  These are the 
standards throughout peer-reviewed science that ensure the best available 
information is available to you. 
 
 
I would like to thank Chair and the Committee for your time, 
and please keep Rutgers as a resource that you can go to in the future. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Doctor, thank you so much for your 
time. 
 
 
Director Dean, please. 
S H E I L A   D E A N:  Hello, my name is Sheila Dean, and I am currently 
the Director of the Marine Mammal Stranding Center. 
 
 
 
40 
 
 
The Center was formed in 1978 by my husband, Robert 
Schoelkopf and myself, and we were the first of its kind in New Jersey.  Prior 
to that, marine mammals would lay on the beach and die, or were pushed 
back out and eventually wash in again and die. 
 
 
As our community continues to grapple with the recent surge in 
whale strandings, many of you have reached out with questions regarding 
how our work is funded and our role in the ongoing investigation.  As the 
only first responders in New Jersey for marine mammals and sea turtles, we 
work under a permit from NOAA Fisheries and the State of New Jersey to do 
the work that we do.  We also work with our fellow network members from 
the Greater Atlantic Marine Mammal Stranding Network to help find the 
answers about what is happening to these animals. 
 
 
The work that we do, that we perform, is the first step in many 
that will bring us closer to understanding why we are seeing so many whale 
strandings along the east coast.  Large whale necropsies can take a day or 
more to complete. The work is grueling and dangerous, requiring a large team 
of people, each with a specific task, working together as safely and as 
sufficiently as possible to complete the examination. 
 
 
When a large whale washes ashore in the northeast region, often 
times, staff from other stranding organizations will travel in from out of state 
to assist with our efforts.  We are grateful to our fellow stranding network 
members who have helped support our staff by assisting our team with the 
recent necropsies as these large-scale stranding events take dozens of people 
to facilitate. 
 
 
Stranding organizations such as ourselves perform the necropsies 
and collect any samples that are viable, based on the condition of the carcass.  
 
 
 
41 
Once we have collected the samples, they are sent to laboratory pathologists 
who are responsible for processing and analyzing.  When the pathologists 
have completed their work, the scientists who are tasked with researching the 
ongoing unusual mortality event interpret the findings. 
 
 
This is not the first UME investigation that the Marine Mammal 
Stranding Center has been involved with.  In the summer of 1987, hundreds 
of bottlenose dolphins washed ashore in New Jersey, as well as along the east 
coast.  After several months of necropsies and sample collection, the cause 
was found to be a virus which had spread through the population.  A similar 
event occurred in the summer of 2013, which, again, was found to be a virus. 
 
 
In an effort to be transparent with our followers, the Marine 
Mammal Stranding Center has shared the initial findings of the recent whale 
necropsies on our website and social media accounts.  In all cases, including 
those animals in which evidence of ship strike was found, the pathology 
results are still pending.  This means that the final cause of death has not 
been determined.  To assign blame before the scientific data is analyzed and 
interpreted would be premature, and could dilute our impact on championing 
changes on behalf of these animals in the future. 
 
 
The Stranding Center is approaching this investigation in a non-
biased manner.  We are asking patience, as our staff is entirely focused on 
performing our work in the most professional and scientific manner, and the 
death of these animals is a sad event and it has come all too frequently lately.  
Our small but mighty team has been stretched thin with 12-hour days, but 
we are continuing to work to help find answers about why the whales are 
dying.  We appreciate the community support as they show us the same 
compassion that we share with the animals.   
 
 
 
42 
 
 
It’s important to note that the Stranding Center is also 
approaching this investigation without influence from any other outside 
organizations or corporate entities.  In essence, the Marine Mammal 
Stranding Center has not accepted any funding from wind energy companies.  
As a non-profit organization, the Center is funded by donations, fundraisers, 
grants, and gift shop sales.  As with all non-profits, our financials are public 
record, and you can review our organization’s most recent IRS 990 on 
GuideStar.org, or you can stop in the Stranding Center and you can see a 53-
page copy of our financials in our museum. 
 
 
We just appreciate the patience of the public and the support of 
our community as our staff is entirely focused on performing our work in the 
most professional and scientific manner. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  And, thank you all for your 
testimony today and your work on this issue. 
 
 
I just have a couple of questions, and then I’ll allow my colleagues 
to ask any questions they have. 
 
 
But, regarding the necropsies, if I can just ask -- how many has 
your organization participated in? 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  We have had nine whales -- actually, three of those 
whales we could not reach because they were (indiscernible) out at sea. 
 
 
So, the necropsies that we did were six in total. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Got you. 
 
 
And, can-- Just so we have a better understanding of it, can you 
explain the process for examining a stranded whale and how you would 
determine their cause of death or injury? 
 
 
 
43 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  Well, initially-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  And, no, we’re not scientists, so the 
layman way would be the best; thank you. 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  I’m not either, but Danielle is, and Danielle has 
been with us on every necropsy that we’ve done on these whales. 
 
 
Initially, we’ll see an animal wash up, and we might see some 
bruising or some marks on it, which indicates it had been hit.  There might 
be some propeller marks on it, or sometimes we’ll find evidence that the 
animal had been entangled at one point, although we haven’t found any 
animals in this group of animals that had entanglement ropes on it. 
 
 
So, we have to put together a team at that point.  Most of the 
time, the whales that are coming in -- I’m going to say all of these whales -- 
have been dead for weeks, most likely, so they were pretty badly decomposed, 
and we knew we were going to not be able to find a lot from examining their 
bodies.  And, sure enough, when we would open them up, there wouldn’t be 
a lot left inside of them that was viable.  We did take samples that we could, 
and pass them along to the researchers, but it’s a day-long process of opening 
a large whale up.  It’s a little bit gory; a lot of people who have come to witness 
it have to walk away, because you can imagine, you have a 40-foot animal 
that you’re opening its entire insides out. 
 
 
So, we take the samples.  They are prepared specially for 
whatever we’re looking for.  Some are put in Formalin, some are frozen.  
There’s different ways that we prepare them.  They are then passed onto the 
researchers, like I said, and now we wait for the results.  We haven’t had the 
results come back yet because, as you can imagine, there’s not a lot of people 
who do that -- the research on the samples -- and there was a lot of animals 
 
 
 
44 
at one time.  So, consequently, this is all over the United States, it’s not just 
the east coast.  There’s whales washing up everywhere. 
 
 
So, we just have to wait.  We’re waiting our turn, patiently, and 
hopefully they’ll come back with something.  It could be a disease, we don’t 
know, like it was with the dolphins that took many months, back in ’87, 
before we heard anything.  It could be the same thing; it could be many 
months before we know anything. 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Could I answer that? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Please, go ahead. 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Hi, I’m sorry.  
 
 
So, I think it’s important to point out that there are very few 
people in the State of New Jersey who have experience in conducting a 
necropsy on a large whale -- or even a dolphin, for that matter.  So, I am one 
of the few people in this state that does have that experience, so I do offer 
my assistance whenever a whale washes up on the beach, as a volunteer. 
 
 
It’s also important to know that there are protocols that we 
follow in order to determine what caused the death of -- or what potentially 
caused the death -- of a whale.  After everyone is-- Volunteers are recruited, 
and we have developed a plan to respond to the animal and to actually get to 
the site with equipment. The skin and blubber are typically flenched off  first, 
after measurements are taken.  That is where we typically begin to look, or 
begin our investigation into the potential causes. 
 
 
A common question is, “How could a whale possibly be 
considered as a potential ship strike when there are no obvious propeller 
injuries?”  And, that is actually very common.  It’s much more common for a 
necropsy to be conducted and for us to see large areas of bruising or 
 
 
 
45 
hemorrhaging, and that has been defined as one of the -- something that could 
be evidenced as a suspect or probable vessel strike.  Whales -- their blubber 
is very thick -- they don’t always show those obvious signs of being hit by a 
ship, very similar to someone having internal bleeding.  So, it’s really not 
always obvious at all.  But, the folks who are in charge of these necropsies are 
well, well versed in how to tell the difference between healthy tissue and 
damaged tissue. 
 
 
So, I (indiscernible) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you so much for your 
testimony today. 
 
 
I’ll allow my colleagues-- Again, if we can stick to asking 
questions on topic, I’ll allow for any statements or comments at the end of 
the meeting. 
 
 
Does anyobody have any questions? 
 
 
Vice-Chair. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN CARTER:  I think that it was covered, but 
I just want to make sure. 
 
 
And, I appreciate it, because you are all the professions that are 
looking and researching and doing this.  First of all, thank you for the service 
that you do -- especially the volunteers, going out and working with these 
whales. 
 
 
But, as you look at it, and here on the east coast, we are New 
Jersey.  Across the east coast, can you determine, really-- Is there really a huge 
uptick?  Is it only in New Jersey that there’s this uptick with the whales?  
 
 
And, is there, across the east coast, something else besides being 
hit and tangled -- which is hard to do -- but once they’re being examined, is 
 
 
 
46 
it plastic, things that have been consumed, in them, that also could be a huge 
cause of this (indiscernible)?  It’s more than just climate but what we, as 
humans, sometimes do with the things of how we go about everyday 
activities, things that get into the ocean.  Is that also maybe some type of a 
cause? 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  We typically do not see plastic in the large whales, 
because they eat the smaller fish.  The medium-sized and the smaller whales 
are the ones that would eat squid, and they’re the ones that would take in 
plastic, like plastic bags, thinking that it was something -- a squid or 
something that they would normally eat. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN CARTER:  And, is there that uptick that 
we’re seeing more in New Jersey, or is it along the east coast?  Are we seeing 
those type of numbers along the east coast with them, with the whales coming 
to shore?  Things like that. 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  I can only speak for New Jersey.  We have an 
extremely small staff, and we did see that uptick in the humpback whales, 
yes.  The other whales that washed in, the other species, was pretty much 
normal from what we see. 
 
 
You do have a packet, and it shows all the different whales that 
we do see and how many we see each year since 2002.  And, so, yes, like I 
said, there is an uptick in the humpbacks, but that’s probably because of the 
prey that they’re following.  And, we don’t know for sure, but it’s just--  That’s 
what we think, that it’s just they’re following the prey that’s causing them to 
get struck by the ships because of it. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY: Anybody else? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Just a quick question. 
 
 
 
47 
 
 
Are you--  And, thank you guys for everything that you’re doing 
and continue to do. 
 
 
And, Stockton is the best college in the state.  Just pointing it 
out. 
 
 
Are you familiar with the dolphins that washed up in Sea Isle?  
So, what would cause eight dolphins that claimed to be out frolicking in the 
ocean and playing around to all just rush to the beach? 
 
 
So, what would cause eight dolphins that seemed to be just out 
playing in the ocean and then all of a sudden they just go and beach.  Do you 
have any idea, can you give an opinion on that, please? 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  I can, yes. 
 
 
So, when trying to answer that question, the first thing that we 
look at is the species.  So, those species, or short-beaked common dolphins.  
Short-beaked common dolphins are not the bottle-nose dolphins that we 
regularly see from our beaches.  They are a pelagic species. 
 
 
So, my first question is, why are they close to shore in the first 
place?  We do know that that species does like to feed on more pelagic fish.  
One example is American sand lance or sand eels.  This is a species that is 
typically found further offshore, although it does come in occasionally closer, 
and that is one of the fish species that NOAA has let us know has been seen 
in abundance over this past winter. 
 
 
So, it is possible that these animals were following fish closer to 
shore.  That also explains why sightings of these animals have been seen in 
areas like Raritan Bay, in very shallow locations.  These are not coastal 
animals; they do not navigate shallow waters very well at all.  And, if we look 
further outside of New York and New Jersey, we do know that up in New 
 
 
 
48 
England, short-beaked common dolphins strand very often.  They do tend to 
get stuck inside shallow bays when the tide goes out.  So, it’s very possible 
that that happened, and I do know -- I believe -- that some of those animals 
were found with food in their stomachs, so it was very likely they were eating 
at the time. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Thank you, that’s all, 
Chairman; thank you, sir. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  First of all, let me thank the 
three of you -- especially you, Ms. Brown, your experience must be--  I can’t 
imagine being in the ocean in the presence of whales every week of your life, 
it must be very cool. 
 
 
I have a couple of very simple questions.  First, I would like to 
focus on what Director Sheila Dean said.  You had said that in many cases, 
necropsies could be many months before you know anything about what the 
necropsy is informing us of.  Can you expound on that a little bit? 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  We take the samples from the animals, and we pass 
them along to the laboratories who investigate them to see what they may 
find as disease or something else going on with the animals.  We haven’t had 
any answers back from them, because there’s-- I guess there’s a shortage of 
research-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Yes.  When you say many 
months, can you put a number to it? 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  So, in ’87, it was about 10 months before we found 
out it was a virus, from the dolphins. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  And, what about recent 
necropsies? 
 
 
 
49 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  The recent necropsies, the samples have all been 
sent out. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  And, nothing back yet? 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  Nothing. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  OK. 
 
 
Dr. Kohut, I agree 100% with what you said; your statement was 
very well done, and I thank you for your expertise and for being here with us 
today. 
 
 
Ms. Brown -- I hope to call you Dr. Brown very soon, according 
to what you said-- I do have a couple of things about what you had said.  First 
of all, I don’t know if you saw my exchange with the DEP Commissioner, but 
you did state in your moment there that data on prey fish is insufficient. 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  I did. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Can you expand on that a little 
bit? 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Absolutely. 
 
 
So, the majority of systematic studies into the presence of prey 
off the New York Bight is with trawl surveys that occur somewhat of a 
distance from shore.  Atlantic menhaden, which is the fish that we do visually 
see the whales feeding on--  That’s why we call that a prey species, because 
we’ll actually see the fish come out of the water when the whales are feeding.  
So, we do know they feed on that species. 
 
 
The trawl surveys don’t necessarily pick up Atlantic menhaden, 
because they can be found closer to the surface.  So, unfortunately, we don’t 
have enough information on that species in particular.  The other fish species 
that we have seen whales feeding on is the American sand lance, like I 
 
 
 
50 
mentioned earlier, and there is not a fishery for that species.  So, again, 
research is not focused on that species here off New Jersey. 
 
 
So, there are definitely data gaps as far as prey is concerned.  I 
should also mention that, although we do see whales feeding at the surface 
on Atlantic menhaden and offshore on sand lance, we do not know if there 
are other prey species that they focus on.  We know there are other species 
that Dr. Kohut had actually mentioned earlier.  Atlantic mackerel and 
Atlantic herring are present off of our shores, even though in low numbers, 
so we don’t know if the humpback whales are feeding on them as well. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  OK, so, I think we can say that 
we really don’t know what the prey fish are doing completely. 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  The prey fish? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  The prey species. 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Well, we don’t know what their actual 
abundance is in our area. 
 
 
However, we do know that they are moving north and they are 
here year-round when, previously, they were migratory.  So, Atlantic 
menhaden are off of our shores year-round, so there is a year-round prey 
species for humpback whales. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  OK. 
 
 
And, also, you said at one point that there are many, many things 
that we don’t know.  Obviously, I’m not going to ask you to tell me the things 
you don’t know, but can you tell me what maybe you’re working on that you 
don’t know that you’re working towards an answer on? 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Sure.  I think I outlined several things that we 
don’t know, and that is just a subset. 
 
 
 
51 
 
 
So, specifically, some of my research at Rutgers as a Ph.D. 
candidate focuses on trying to figure out what those humpback whales are 
feeding on, trying to determine their diet composition to see what species are 
most important to them in the mid-Atlantic, not just off New Jersey. 
 
 
I’m also looking at hormone levels, stress hormones, and how 
that may change over time. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  And, finally, I’d like to say I 
agree with you with one of your last assertions, which is, we definitely need 
more research. 
 
 
So, I look forward to seeing-- 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  One hundred percent. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Thank you for being here. 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you, again. 
 
 
Anybody else? 
 
 
Please, Assemblywoman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN PARK:  I also want to thank everyone for 
your testimony today, it’s very -- sorry. 
 
 
I just want to say that it’s a lot of information that I’m taking in; 
I’m learning a lot about whales. 
 
 
So, I think having this discussion today, really, prey fish seems 
to be the key to a lot of what’s happening.  So, I know you had mentioned, 
Dr. Brown -- or, soon-to-be Dr. Brown -- that there are certain species that 
we are aware of that the humpback whales feed on. 
 
 
 
52 
 
 
So, from this discussion, would you say that they’re kind of 
particular to certain prey fish, and there are fish that, even though are out 
that, the whales won’t eat?  Is that a good enough conclusion? 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Sure. 
 
 
So, humpback whales are opportunistic, so they will feed on 
many different fish species.  But, it’s typically a schooling fish.  So, they 
generally don’t go after the same species that we fish for recreationally.  
They’re really looking for patches of prey. 
 
 
What does make things a little bit more complicated in our 
humpback whales that we see is that, although we see them feeding on 
Atlantic menhaden very often, when they feed at the surface, this is not a fish 
species that seems to be as important to them on their northern feeding 
grounds.  So, more often, they will feed on those sand eels; they will feed on 
Atlantic herring or Atlantic mackerel.  So, that makes things interesting as 
well. 
 
 
So, it just shows you one more thing that we’re not sure about. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN PARK:  And, so, let’s say the prey fish 
that they are consuming -- are they coming closer to shore for whatever 
reason?  Do you have data on that? 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Well, Atlantic menhaden are a coastal species to 
begin with, so, there have been protections that have been in place over the 
last decade that may be leading to an increase in Atlantic menhaden.  But, 
also, they are generally -- they were generally known, and you can correct me 
-- as a more southern species.  So, it does appear that we’re seeing more in 
the New York Bight, and they are seeing less further south. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN PARK:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
 
53 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN TULLY:  Very good, thank you. 
 
 
Anybody else?  (no response) 
 
 
All right, thank you so much for your testimony here today.  
Thank you so much for the incredible work that you’re doing.  I’m sure if we 
have any follow-up questions, we will reach out to you directly, and I really 
appreciate you making the time today. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
DR. KOHUT:  Thank you. 
 
 
MS. BROWN:  Thank you. 
 
 
MS. DEAN:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  OK, and, that’s actually--  That’s it 
for our in-person testimony here today. 
 
 
In order to provide the Committee here with more individuals 
within the scientific community that can speak to this issue, we are allowing 
testimony by phone. 
 
 
And, first up, we have Dr. Nowacek.  He is a Professor of 
conservation technology in environment and engineering at Duke University. 
 
 
Dr. Nowacek, can you hear us? 
D O U G L A S   N O W A C E K, Ph.D.:  Yes I can, absolutely.  Can you 
hear me? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  We actually can.  Then, this is 
working; this is wonderful. 
 
 
So, Dr. Nowacek-- 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Oh, fantastic. 
 
 
 
54 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Yes, thank you so much for making 
the time today, and please introduce yourself, your work, and we’ll go from 
there. 
 
 
Thank you so much for being here. 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you for the 
invitation and the staffers for putting this together. 
 
 
We only got connected relatively recently, so I don’t have 
actually a full statement to present, so apologies for that, but I’m happy to 
answer questions, obviously, and then do some follow up. 
 
 
But, about me, as the Chairman introduced, I am a professor at 
Duke University, specifically at the Marine Laboratory out on the coast, but 
also in the Engineering School in electrical and computer engineering.  My-- 
I received my Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the 
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.  And, during that time -- and since 
that time -- I have worked on the bio-acoustics and acoustic ecology of, 
primarily whales and dolphins, but also manatees, fish, and sea turtles.  I have 
also spent the last, pushing 20 years now, looking at the effects of noise on 
(indiscernible), primarily, and that work has included quite a lot of work with 
offshore industrial activities from oil and gas, seismic surveys, to the very 
types of surveys you’re talking about today, to a variety of things; looking at 
the proximal responses of the animals as well as some of the physiological 
responses and the acoustic responses. 
 
 
So, I am happy to--  I will leave it there.  I think--  Yes, I have in 
front of me the sources and the statistics on the sources that Ocean Wind 
was approved to use.  So, it gets very technical very quickly, acoustic nerves 
are like that.  But, I’m happy to try to convey what I can in terms of 
 
 
 
55 
interpreting those things for all of you and for questions that your members 
might have. 
 
 
So, I’ll just leave it there, and I’m happy to take questions.  
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Doctor, again, thank you so much 
for being here today. 
 
 
It was actually asked earlier, and based on your testimony I’ll just 
ask:  It was suggested ocean floor mapping associated with wind energy 
development could disorient marine animals.  Could you speak to that in 
more detail, through your expertise? 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Yes, absolutely, I’ll segregate the sources into 
basically two types:  the so-called HRG, which you may have seen, the high 
resolution, geo-technical or geo-physical sources, and the high resolution 
comes along with high frequency.  And, the easiest way to think about that 
is the ultrasound that we use to look at babies while they’re still in their 
mother’s womb.  And, those high-frequency sound waves can do a very good 
job at resolving fine features, like a baby’s finger, for example. 
 
 
Those HRG sources, with respect to the wind energy 
development, those sources, I would actually go as far -- something coming 
from a scientist -- those high-frequency sources I would consider de minimis  
in their potential for impact on basically all marine mammals, because they 
are extremely high-frequency, which is out of the hearing range of these 
animals, and they’re also-- Those high frequencies are absorbed extremely 
quickly in seawater.  In fact, there’s been significant technical development 
in getting those sources closer to the bottom so that they can operate even 
 
 
 
56 
better, so you don’t have to go through the water column and then down into 
the bottom. 
 
 
Another important thing to consider--  And, this, I use the 
comparison to seismic surveys used for oil and gas exploration yearly as a 
comparison.  Not to say one is better than the other or anything like that, 
they’re both sound  sources.  All of these things are acoustic, obviously, sound 
sources.  But the other set of sources for the wind energy development are 
the, relatively speaking, lower frequencies -- you’ve heard them referred to as 
boomers, barkers, or chirpers, or these other terms that you may have heard.  
They do operate in the hearing range of humpback whales, as are -- or right 
whales, for that matter.  I know it was mentioned earlier that right whales are 
concerned, or are a concern. 
 
 
But, the level of the barkers and boomers, for example, looking 
at the source level here which is listed at 203 decibels -- and, I certainly won’t 
torture you with a lot of discussion about decibels, but just as a comparison, 
again, the whole array of seismic forces used for oil and gas exploration are 
some 100,000 times more intense -- louder, in terms we can all understand   
-- than the sources that are being used for the wind development.  And, there’s 
a very simple reason for this, Mr. Chairman, and that is that the wind energy 
development only needs to explore the top 50 or so meters of the sediment, 
whereas the oil and gas surveys, by their nature, are looking kilometers -- 
thousands of meters -- into the bottom, and they need more energy.  So, 
that’s why they have to have more energy.  The upside on the wind energy 
development side is that these sources, while still a formidable sound source, 
they’re much, much less intense than those sources. 
 
 
 
57 
 
 
So, to get to your question, I will rely--  I will go back to what 
the National Marine Fishery Service has authorized as harassment.  And, 
there’s two categories:  One is level A, which causes -- could potentially cause 
-- actual damage to the animals’ ears or otherwise.  The other one is Level B, 
which is a behavioral disturbance.  And that, Mr. Chairman, could be 
anything from a slight deflection in orientation or movement, or, you know, 
a variety of behavioral things.  They could start feeding or stop feeding, or 
any of these things.  Are they significant by an individual whale?  Not really.  
If the whole population stops feeding for months, that’s a bigger problem.  
But, can the sources disorient the animals such that they would die instantly?  
No.  Do we worry about them getting a little disoriented and deviating 
around a path?  That could certainly happen. 
 
 
But, the Fishery Service, as well as the Department of Energy, 
have both come out and stand by their-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Sorry, Doctor, can you just hold on 
just one second?  Your microphone somehow turned off. 
 
 
You’re good, go ahead. 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  OK, where did you lose me? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Probably about 15 seconds ago. 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  OK, I’ll try to backtrack. 
 
 
As far as the disorientation or change in behavior, that is possible 
with these lower frequency sources.  I’ll quote what the Fishery Service 
approved for Ocean Wind, and that is that they expect a “Level B behavioral 
disturbance at a range of 141 meters in the worst-case scenario.”  So, 141 
meters from that source, that is 20-some miles offshore -- the whales are 
obviously offshore as well -- but after 141 meters, the Fishery Service does 
 
 
 
58 
not anticipate or determine that there is any behavioral change even to those 
animals. 
 
 
So, to the sources that are being used, at any stage in this process, 
I would stand by what the Fishery Service has published on their website and 
in documents, as well as the Department of Energy has recently come out 
with a similar statement with all of the backing material that none of the 
sources used for wind energy development, as currently laid out, have any 
chance of causing the mortalities that have been witnessed off the Atlantic 
coast -- full stop. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Doctor, thank you for discussing 
IHAs. 
 
 
If you could just give us a little bit more details on what IHAs 
are, and when NOAA issues them, just for our background here. 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Absolutely, my pleasure. 
 
 
Under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as revised in -- I 
don’t remember what year, ’93 I think -- one of the--  So, the MMPA, as most 
folks know, protects marine mammals and protects from what’s called “takes” 
of marine mammals.  And, that could be anything from a slight behavioral 
change, all the way through to a mortality.  The Fishery Service has certainly 
not authorized any lethal takes as part of any of these activities, but the IHA 
is a mechanism in the MMPA that allows anybody -- from your fellow citizen 
to wind energy developers, the Navy, whatever -- it authorizes those takes as 
incidental to the activity that you’re doing.  So, the IHAs are issued prior to 
those activities.  They go through Section 7 consultations of the National 
Environmental Policy Act so that they are vetted across agencies, including 
 
 
 
59 
other causes and agencies like BOEM, and BOEM consults by providing the 
information about the sources. 
 
 
So, those IHAs are issued.  There are lots of--  There are many, 
many stipulations in there that include, for example, for North Atlantic right 
whales, a very large shutdown radius -- which varies by project, so I’m not 
going to give you a number -- right through to other, to the delphine species, 
the other large whales; it authorizes them a certain number of takes; and 
stipulates a lot of safety measures that have to be implemented from listening 
-- passive acoustic listening -- to posted observers to make sure there are no 
animals in the area.  They have uniformly, I believe, they have a period before 
which they can start -- something like 30 minutes or an hour -- that they have 
to scan the area to make sure there are no animals within those stated safety 
ranges -- and they’re smaller for right whales, for example. 
 
 
In addition, it authorizes--  The IHAs authorize time periods of 
the year during which these activities can occur, and those are lined up to 
minimize impact, especially to the most vulnerable species like right whales.  
And, for example, Vineyard Wind off Massachusetts is only authorized to do 
construction from May through December, I believe, because the right whale 
numbers are very, very low.  But, they still have all those mitigation measures 
in place to ensure that there are no animals within the ranges of -- certainly 
of danger, let alone even behavioral.  And, they have to record all the animals 
that they see and the range they were from the sources and any response they 
see in the animals. 
 
 
So, that’s the IHAs in a nutshell.  The research part of it is 
different.  So, we have to apply for research permits that are totally different 
 
 
 
60 
-- I won’t even go into those, because they’re really not relevant, but I’m 
happy to take any questions. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you, Doctor, appreciate that. 
 
 
I know we have a few questions from the--  OK, does anybody 
have any questions for the doctor? 
 
 
Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Just one quick question. 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Do you feel as though there is 
a cumulative effect when you’re doing testing of the ocean floor, or do you 
feel as though that certain testing, like for oil, or certain testing for wind 
farms, is different, so there will be no cumulative effect on mammals in those 
areas because of the protocol that they have in place? 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Yes, the cumulative effects question is an 
extremely vexing one, and one that the whole world is struggling with, in 
terms of trying to actually get a handle on it. 
 
 
There are several ongoing projects for North Atlantic right whales 
that are geared towards exactly those questions.  There have been some 
studies in Europe of wind farm construction and harbor porpoises -- they 
don’t have large whales over there, so it’s the only analogy we have -- and the 
take-home message is that those whales, the porpoises, avoid the areas when 
there is construction.  They, for the most part, return to those areas once 
construction is done, and the piledriving is about a half to a day per piling, 
so you can calibrate yourself on how long those activities are actually going 
to happen. There’s variability, there’s resupplying, those sorts of things. 
 
 
 
61 
 
 
But, as far as the cumulative effect of the construction part, my 
interpretation would be that if you just take ocean wind by itself -- it doesn’t 
occur in a vacuum -- the cumulative effect of that on any marine mammal 
species is likely to be very, very low. 
 
 
As regarding the cumulative effects across all of the wind farm 
development, I thought I heard somebody reference hundreds of thousands 
of turbines -- we’re not to those kinds of numbers yet; it’s certainly not 
approved yet.  And, the concern about the turbines interacting with the 
oceanography, as you heard from Dr. Kohut, there’s a National Academies 
panel that’s just been convened that several of us are on to look at that very 
question. 
 
 
So, I’m going to have to say, unfortunately, that the jury is out 
on the cumulative effects.  I can tell you from the acoustic side that the 
confined area of the wind farms -- which sounds like a lot of acres, and it is a 
lot of acres, but remember the ocean is pretty big and the size of the survey 
areas is much, much, much smaller than it was for petroleum and gas.  Again, 
just as a comparison’s sake, they’re just smaller -- and less loud. 
 
 
So, I worry less about the cumulative effects of that. I can’t, 
unfortunately, give you a full answer. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN: Thank you for that. 
 
 
And, then, just one last question.  I know we’ve been focusing on 
whales and dolphins and things of that nature.  Is there any effect once the 
turbines are up on -- and, I don’t know if you know this, I’m just throwing it 
out there -- on birds, and birds flying into those turbines, and things of that 
nature? 
 
 
I don’t expect you to know it, but just a general question. 
 
 
 
62 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Yes, and I should have said as part of my 
introduction I also lead a Department of Energy and BOEM-funded multi-
institutional study -- Dr. Kohut is actually a co-investigator on that study -- 
that is focused on looking at the potential impact on marine mammals and 
birds and bats of offshore wind development. 
 
 
What I can tell you, again, from our European colleagues, is that 
their birds are certainly killed by wind turbines, and bats are as well.  And, 
there is some of the same species, like black-backed gulls and gannets that 
occur on the Atlantic coast.  How they are going to--  Some of the data from 
Europe is the animals, when they’re flying, they tend to avoid the wind farms.  
They do fly between the turbines. 
 
 
So, the short answer is yes, birds are killed.  The bigger answer is 
we don’t have any signs that there are any kind of population-level 
consequences of wind farms on anything other than maybe one or two species 
of bats on land.  So, we try to putting that -- as you did with the cumulative 
effects question, trying to think about the population-level consequences, and 
we don’t have any signs that there are population-level consequences for any 
bird species. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Doctor, thank you for that, but I 
want to stick to the topic at hand. 
 
 
Does anybody have any additional questions for the doctor, 
while we have him? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MOEN:  Just a final question here. 
 
 
Doctor, thank you for joining us.  This is Assemblyman Moen. 
 
 
To your knowledge, are there any studies that unequivocally link 
the sound that would be generated from this development to whale strandings 
 
 
 
63 
in New Jersey and New York or other places?  And, are there -- just through 
your studies, have there been any other states that may have that data 
available?  Is there any data available on that? 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Well, there are no--  I can say, well, like I said, 
the HRG sources are absolutely de minimis in terms of their potential impact 
on whales.  And, to my knowledge, and any of that data I’m familiar with -- 
and I’ve written over 100 papers myself and co-authors, probably three 
quarters of them, on these very topics -- there’s no signal anywhere that any 
of these acoustic sources would cause animals -- certainly not cause animals 
to die and be floating out at sea, nor stranded, either. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MOEN:  Thank you. 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  OK, thank you, Doctor, thank you 
so much for your time and your testimony today.  We greatly appreciate it. 
 
 
DR. NOWACEK:  Thanks for the opportunity. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you. 
 
 
OK, unfortunately, did we -- our last -- he’s on a plane? 
 
 
So, our last call-in, unfortunately-- 
R O B E R T   A.   D i G I O V A N N I,  JR.:  I actually am here. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Oh, are you on the tarmac right now, 
or-- 
 
 
MR. DiGIOVANNI:  I’m sitting on the tarmac, yes I am. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Robert DiGiovanni, Founder and 
Chief Scientist of the Atlantic Marine Conservation Society, thank you so 
much for being here today, thank you so much for making the time, and I 
will let you get started because I know you’re in a bit of a rush. 
 
 
 
64 
 
 
So, thank you. 
 
 
MR. DiGIOVANNNI:  Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, 
and thank you Committee members for the opportunity to speak with you 
today. 
 
 
As mentioned, I am Rob DiGiovanni with the Atlantic Marine 
Conservation Society, and, as you’ve figured out, I’m sorry I can’t join you 
today in person, but I am actually in the middle of conducting an aerial survey 
for marine mammals and sea turtles in the Northwest Atlantic now, so we’ll 
be taking off in a little bit to go do some counts. 
 
 
I’ve been part of the Marine Mammal Stranding Program for 
over 30 years, and during that time I’ve responded to over 6,000 marine 
mammals and sea turtles that have washed up on our coastline, mainly in 
New York.  And, working with our partners at the Marine Mammal Stranding 
Center in New Jersey, I have conducted necropsies on over 150 large whale 
species.  And, as a member of the Greater Atlantic Regional Fishery Stranding 
Network, we work with our partners, not just the Marine Mammal Stranding 
Center, but also Mystic Aquariums up and down the coast to look at what is 
occurring in the New York Bight. 
 
 
We are authorized by NOAA Fisheries to respond to these 
animals, and to be able to try to understand the cause of the mortality for 
these animals.  And, we couldn’t do this in the field.  As Sheila has mentioned, 
we’re a mostly volunteer network trying to pull it together with the limited 
resources that we have to be able to actually try to understand the causes of 
mortality on these animals, and that can’t be done without a group effort -- 
not just from these stranding partners, but Federal, local, and state 
municipalities working together. 
 
 
 
65 
 
 
It is important for us to keep in mind--  And, I heard some of the 
questions about what happens during a stranding event.  As Sheila pointed 
out, there’s a lot that goes on during this event.  I don’t think I’ve ever been 
on a whale stranding that was less than a 12-hour day, and it really needs 
about 12 to 25 people to be able to conduct this examination and collect 
information from these animals when they are washing up on our beaches.  
And, this does happen pretty frequently, or a lot more frequently than most 
people are aware of. Since 2016-2017, we have been in the middle of an 
unusual mortality event, which has been designated by the UME working 
group -- the Unusual Mortality working group by NOAA Fisheries -- and they 
designate unusual mortalities by looking at an increase in frequency or 
location, time of year, and a number of factors that are definitely listed on 
their website to look at the criteria by which they can designate an unusual 
mortality event. 
 
 
We are currently in the middle of three unusual mortality events 
for large whales:  the North Atlantic right whale, the minke whale, and the 
humpback whale.  All of them have started since 2016, and, in that time, 
roughly we have recovered -- of all three species -- it’s, I think, it’s 375 
animals, of which a third of them have occurred in the New York Bight area.  
So, two-thirds have occurred outside of the area for this. 
 
 
So, what are these changes that everybody has been talking 
about?  When I first started doing strandings back in the ’90s, we would get 
a whale stranding once every--  The longest distance was about 617 days 
between stranding events.  So, you would get one every year, or every couple 
of years.  In 2007, we started to see an increase of the number of strandings 
to go to having one or two a year.  And, in 2016 and 2017, we reviewed some 
 
 
 
66 
of these data and we looked at the frequency of strandings and as of October 
of 2017, we were looking at an average time between stranding events as 
somewhere around 63 days.  By the end of that year -- only a couple months 
later -- that average time had dropped to around 26 days, where it’s been 
hovering for a number of years. 
 
 
I point this out mainly because it gives us an indication that 
there’s a lot of variability in when these strandings occur and the time of year.  
It also points out that we do have strandings at many different times of year, 
until every month of the year we have had large whale strandings.  I think 
there’s a byproduct.  I forget who spoke about how long they have lived in 
New Jersey, 40 years.  I’m thinking about how old--  While doing this for 30 
years, there’s a negative of doing it for so long, but there’s also a positive.  I’m 
starting to remember when you go back to stranding sites and you remember 
seeing these animals in similar areas. 
 
 
So, there are definitely cycles that we’re going through and, as of 
right now with the stranding events, we are seeing this increased frequency 
in the last six years.  But, of those -- as I said, there’s about a third, about 84 
of the animals since 2017 occurred in the New York Bight that Atlantic 
Marine Conservation Society are working with our network partners at 
Marine Mammal Stranding Center and Mystic Aquariums have responded to 
-- 17 of which were actually live animals that stranded.  And, then, of those 
84, 57 of them were able to have necropsy examinations.  And, of those 57, 
35 had evidence of human interaction, or vessel strike, or something along 
those lines.  So, 24 of those 35 were actually vessel strikes, and we say human 
interactions.  I remember a question earlier was about marine debris, but 
when we look at anything that’s human interaction we look at vessel strikes, 
 
 
 
67 
entanglement, and ingestion of debris, although it is not seen as readily in 
the larger whales, we have seen it in other species of animals.  So, these 
findings that we’re seeing that are attributed to vessel strikes are pretty 
consistent to what we’ve been seeing for decades.  What’s been different is 
the frequency we’ve seen in the last six years, and, also, the species 
composition.  We’re starting to see a little bit more of the humpback whales. 
 
 
As we’ve come back to the unusual mortality event, we will see 
that vessel strike and entanglement are the leading causes of mortality for the 
humpback whales, and for the right whales.  But, for the minke whales, which 
is another species that we encounter, it seems to be more of a biological 
process, so more of a disease process that we’re encountering.  So, even 
though we’re having an increase, we’re seeing an increase for a variety of 
reasons, which is probably indicative of what’s going on in the environment. 
 
 
And, I’ve heard a lot of questions about the menhaden, and food, 
and I’ve always used the example of looking at this system and how we go 
through this.  We know we have whales, historically, along the coast of the 
northeast United States.  But, if you think about years ago when we used to 
go traveling on the highway system of the ’70s, we would stop at a rest area 
and we didn’t have a lot of really great choices for food.  Now, when you go 
and travel, you can see there’s a lot more choices there, so we might have a 
longer time that’s being spent in those areas.  And, so, you can see those 
changes. 
 
 
One of the first comments we used to get when we used to go out 
on strandings 45 years ago is people would say to us that they didn’t even 
know whales were here, let alone the fact that we’re having them wash up on 
our beaches.  Now when we go out on a whale stranding, or a necropsy, or 
 
 
 
68 
something along those lines, what we’re hearing from the public is that 
they’re seeing more whales, “Hey, a friend of mine was here and we just saw 
a bunch of whales.”  Just the other day we had a whale stranding in New 
York, and in talking to one of the members of the public they were telling us 
about three humpback whales that they saw off of Fire Island. 
 
 
So, those are some of the changes that we’re seeing.  I would hear 
everybody’s thoughts about--  We need to collect more information and we 
need to collect data and share that and disseminate it.  But, I would also want 
to point out that the stranding programs on a whole are one of the most 
consistent methods by which we have been examining causes of mortality, 
and it’s one of the undersupported parts of the equation where it’s really 
forcing us to try and, in many cases, people coming in on their own time, 
putting them up in hotels. 
 
 
So, in order to address this, we need to bring a lot of these issues 
together, and a lot of these data together, because when I’m out on the beach 
and somebody asks me, “Is this normal?”  If I don’t know that we just got 10 
humpback whales offshore, I don’t know how that really relates to what we’re 
seeing.  And, I think that what we’re hoping with this -- and, I talk about this 
as the New York and New Jersey Bight, and trying to look at this more of a 
system, working with our partners, we could start to answer some of these 
questions and making sure that we have the infrastructure and the support 
to be able to conduct these examinations so that we can provide the much-
needed data going forward. 
 
 
So, hopefully I didn’t go too long. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Doctor, thank you so much for your 
testimony here today. 
 
 
 
69 
 
 
I know you are potentially taking off shortly, so I would just ask 
that you please provide a lot of the statistics and data that you provided 
during your testimony to the Committee.  We’ll be sure to follow up with 
you if any of my colleagues want more detail, please through me.  We can 
ask the doctor as well. 
 
 
But, does anybody have any questions for the doctor while we 
have him? 
 
 
MR. DiGIOVANNI:  Actually, it’s mister, just so you know.  It’s 
not doctor.  Even though it’s 30 years. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you, sir. 
 
 
Assemblyman, please go ahead. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Just one quick question. 
 
 
I guess it’s kind of two part.  Do you--  One, do you know if 
multiple testings are going on at the same time?  And, if they are, would that 
have a different effect if there’s multiple testings going on, or it doesn’t 
matter, it’s the same effect regardless of if it’s testing or it’s not testing? 
 
 
MR. DiGIOVANNI:  To make sure I understand you correctly, 
are you asking like when we’re conducting a necropsy and sending samples 
out?  Is that what you’re asking about? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  No, particularly seismic 
testing.  It’s all--  There’s multiple ones going on at the same time.  Would 
that have a cumulative effect on the mammals, or does it not matter, or you 
don’t know either? 
 
 
MR. DiGIOVANNI:  I think that Dr. Nowacek answered that 
question about the seismic testing a lot better than I would be able to-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Surveys, I’m sorry.  
 
 
 
70 
 
 
MR. DiGIOVANNI:  And, so, when you look at that, as far as--  
When we look at the surveys from a necropsy perspective, we conduct a 
necropsy in exactly the same manner, where we examine, and Danielle Brown 
mentioned earlier about conducting the examination and not jumping to any 
conclusions where we look.  And, so, one of the things we would look at is, 
when we are able to conduct a necropsy and open up the animal; look for 
bruising; look for broken bones. Those samples are then sent out to 
independent pathology labs to verify what our field results say.  And, then 
that’s what leads to us being able to say, these are potential or probable causes 
of mortality related to the vessel strikes.  And, that’s really how we conduct 
our examinations. 
 
 
The understanding about what testing is going on would be great 
to be able to coordinate those efforts going forward, just so we know. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Got you. 
 
 
Thank you, sir. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you. 
 
 
Sorry, Assemblyman, do you have a question? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MOEN:  I do. 
 
 
Thank you for joining us. 
 
 
My first question is, are you in a window or aisle seat? 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
In all seriousness, what can we do as representatives of the State, 
as members of the Legislature--  What can we do to assist with the difficulties 
of conducting necropsies and analyzing stranding? 
 
 
MR. DiGIOVANNI:  That’s a really good question.  I mean, the 
biggest thing that we need is to support directors of programs.  The Marine 
 
 
 
71 
Mammal Stranding Center, like Sheila says, they’re an amazing team, and 
extremely dedicated, and put in a lot of hours.  It’s always a pleasure when 
we’re working with them.  But, they’re definitely undersupported.  They need 
basic support to be able to have staff members who can be able to help and 
assist with it. 
 
 
As we go forward -- and, I don’t want to -- these are issues that 
we have as far as strandings and marine mammals that have been going on 
along the seaboard for years, and we need to make sure that we can continue 
to maintain that consistency of data collection.  And, without continued 
support from not only the Federal but the state level, that makes it very 
problematic.  
 
 
And, I think that’s my biggest concern, is what happens when we 
don’t have gas money?  To make it pretty simple.  I mean, back in the day, 
we used to joke about not being able to pay a toll, you know.  So, I guess 
that’s even a problem now as the prices go up. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Anybody else?  (no response) 
 
 
Doctor, thank you so much for making yourself available today.  
We really appreciate the time, and safe journey. 
 
 
MR. DiGIOVANNI:  Thank you very much, I appreciate it. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you. 
 
 
OK, that is our last testimony for today.  I will allow any brief 
statements from my colleagues before we adjourn for today. 
 
 
We’ll go around the horn here. 
 
 
Assemblyman? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I’m good. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Good. 
 
 
 
72 
 
 
 Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN McCLELLAN:  Just, quickly, thanks for 
inviting me, allowing me to hang out in this Committee. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
Secondly, I think the overall thing that we should take from 
today is that we need to take a step back and see what’s going on in our 
oceans and get a direct answer and not just assume. 
 
 
We had testimony today that we know exactly what’s going on, 
and then we had testimony that says they’re waiting six months and 10 
months to get information back from dead animals.  So -- also, we don’t know 
what the cumulative effect is. 
 
 
So, I think we shouldn’t be rushing to do things, and as a 
legislator, I’ve seen that in my short time here, that certain bills can get 
pushed through in a matter of weeks and certain things can take two, three, 
four, five years to get through.  So, when you’re doing things and you’re 
affecting peoples’ lifestyles and you know, the only good thing that I saw -- 
or know -- that’s coming out of this is that it’s going to create jobs for 
tradespeople.  That was the only good thing. 
 
 
But, at what cost is that going to be?  Do we know that this 
energy is going to help?  We don’t know that.  We don’t know that at all.  
We know there are going to be some quality jobs that are created, and that’s 
a good thing, and that’s a plus, but that shouldn’t be the overall, 
overwhelming thing.  And, those jobs can still be created, but I still think we 
need to take a step back and not rush to do things, and see how it’s going to 
affect our ocean; see how it’s going to affect our bays, and our communities 
and things of that nature. 
 
 
 
73 
 
 
I think we, as elected officials, need to start taking some time 
back on legislation that we put forward, and not allow somebody from up top 
to push things for their own selfish agendas. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MOEN:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
I do just want to take a moment to thank everyone who has 
testified today and those in attendance. 
 
 
As Assemblyman McClellan said, representing my area of 
southern New Jersey -- Camden and Gloucester County -- from an industry 
perspective, we understand the significance here. 
 
 
But, I think what the DEP Commissioner said is that if we’re 
doing our jobs here correctly, it is important to take a step back to look at 
the entire picture here.  That means with the urgency that many folks that 
come to the table with objections to offshore wind, that urgency -- I would 
truly hope that that urgency would carry through to dealing with the larger 
issues we’ve heard today about climate change; to dealing with some of the 
other issues that may impact why whales are dying, which can include the 
increased ship traffic that we heard about today. 
 
 
These are things that I think, collectively, we can continue to 
work forward together on.  I think this information that we heard today -- 
the testimony that we heard -- will be analyzed by our staff on both sides of 
the aisle, and will give us information that we can continue to move forward 
and work together on to determine what the State of New Jersey, in 
partnership with the Federal government, can be doing to ensure that we’re 
moving along in the same direction in an appropriate, safe, and respectful 
way. 
 
 
 
74 
 
 
So, thank you, Chairman, for holding the Committee hearing 
today, and I’m looking forward to the work that comes ahead. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you, Assemblyman. 
 
 
Assemblywoman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN PARK:  I just, I think my takeaway from 
the discussion today is that, yes, there is an urgency as far as global warming.   
Clean energy -- there’s an urgency to clean energy, and the takeaway today 
as far as the whales and what’s happening off our shores is that we really need 
to figure out the prey fish situation, that we need more data regarding prey 
fish. 
 
 
And the other--  I’ve heard from the last doctor that called in was 
that the ocean surveying for the offshore wind is very de minimis -- I think he 
said “de minimis” like six times -- so, obviously, we need to really think about 
this more.  But, at the same time, there is an urgency. 
 
 
I just read an article about how this summer is going to be one 
of the hottest summers yet to come, and, so, we don’t want to keep -- we 
don’t want to keep this in the back burner, saying, “Global warming, global 
warming is going to happen.”  I want there to be a future for our children and 
clean energy for them in the future. 
 
 
So, I thank everyone who came today and spoke, too.  So, thank 
you very much. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN TULLY:  Thank you, Assemblywoman. 
 
 
I would like to sincerely thank everyone who testified here today.  
Obviously, this is a very important issue, a very emotional issue, and I would 
like to thank our Committee for having a healthy conversation as well.   
 
 
 
75 
 
And, giving us the opportunity to listen to the experts share their 
insights into whale deaths off the New Jersey Shore and elsewhere across the 
coast. 
 
 
We’re going to review all the data and testimony we heard in 
today’s fact-based hearing, and we’re going to continue to work with the 
experts to understand how to address this issue if necessary.  This Committee 
is going to hold additional hearings, and I thank you all today for your time. 
 
 
Get home safe.  Meeting is adjourned. 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
 
  
 
