 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
ASSEMBLY TELECOMMUNICATIONS  
AND UTILITIES COMMITTEE 
 
“The Committee will receive testimony from invited guests concerning recent increases in 
electricity rates and the related cost burden on utility customers in certain service areas” 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 11 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
October 2, 2024 
11:00 a.m. 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Assemblyman Wayne P. DeAngelo, Chair 
Assemblyman James J. Kennedy, Vice Chair 
Assemblyman David Bailey, Jr. 
Assemblyman Julio Marenco 
Assemblywoman Tennille R. McCoy 
Assemblyman Christian E. Barranco 
Assemblyman Paul Kanitra 
Assemblyman Alex Sauickie 
 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Mikaela A. Chianese 
Suzanne Miller 
 
 
 
Erin K. Reagan 
 
 
Diego Romero 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
 
Assembly Majority 
 
 
Assembly Republican 
Committee Aides 
 
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aide 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
N.J. Assemblyman Cody D. Miller 
District 4 
4 
 
N.J. Assemblywoman Andrea Katz 
District 8 
6 
 
N.J. Assemblyman Brian E. Rumpf 
District 9 
8 
 
Christine Guhl-Sadovy 
President 
New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) 
13 
 
Jason M. Stanek 
Executive Director of Governmental Services 
PJM Interconnection 
30 
 
Phillip Vavala  
Vice President of Governmental and External Affairs, and 
Regional President 
Atlantic City Electric (ACE) 
43 
 
Kieran Tintle 
Senior Advisor, NJ Governmental Affairs 
Jersey Central Power & Light (JCP&L) 
48 
 
Patricia Mullin 
Vice President of Operations 
Jersey Central Power & Light  
49 
 
David L. Johnson 
Vice President of Customer Care, and 
Chief Customer Officer 
Public Service Electric and Gas (PSE&G) 
51 
 
Joseph Checkley 
President and Business Manager 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) 
Local 94 
56 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Michele O’Connell 
President and CEO 
Rockland Electric Company 
58 
 
Rich Henning 
President and CEO 
New Jersey Utilities Association (NJUA) 
81 
 
Brian O. Lipman, Esq. 
Director 
Division of Rate Counsel 
87 
 
Evelyn Liebman 
Director of Advocacy 
AARP New Jersey 
100 
 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
N.J. Senator Carmen F. Amato, Jr., 
N.J. Assemblyman Brian E. Rumpf, and 
N.J. Assemblyman Gregory E. Myhre 
District 9 
1x 
 
Testimony, and 
Additional materials 
submitted by 
Christine Guhl-Sadovy 
2x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Jason M. Stanek 
17x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Phillip Vavala 
24x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
David L. Johnson 
27x 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Michele O’Connell 
30x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Brian O. Lipman, Esq. 
32x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Evelyn Liebman 
43x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
N.J. Assemblyman Michael Torrissi, Jr. 
District 8 
47x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Fred DeSanti 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Solar Energy Coalition  
49x 
 
mej: 1-106 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
ASSEMBLYMAN WAYNE P. DeANGELO (Chair):  Thank 
you, and good morning, everyone. 
 
 
I just want to make sure -- is my mic recorded?  Make sure we’ve 
got me. 
 
 
Perfect, thank you. 
 
 
Good morning, everyone.  I would like to welcome everybody to 
the Assembly Telecommunications and Utilities Committee hearing today on 
the cost of our electrical rate throughout the system in the State of New 
Jersey. 
 
 
If I can have everybody please rise for the Pledge of Allegiance, 
and remain standing for a moment of silence. 
(Pledge of Allegiance is recited) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  If everyone can just remain 
standing for a moment of silence for those who are weathering through the 
storms across this country, and the men and women serving us in the 
military who may be in harm’s way. 
 
 
Please be seated. 
 
 
If I could please have a roll call. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblyman Kanitra. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Here. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblyman Sauickie. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Here. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblyman Barranco. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Here. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblyman Marenco. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  Yes. 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblyman Bailey. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Here. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblywoman McCoy. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN McCOY:  Present. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Vice Chair Kennedy. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  He should be on his way. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  He’s on his way. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  I am here. 
 
 
We do have a quorum. 
 
 
So, I would like to welcome everybody this morning to this 
hearing -- I would like to welcome everybody here this morning to our 
hearing to have a lengthy discussion about our energy across the State of 
New Jersey. 
 
 
If I can just open up with a few words, I just want to make sure 
that we have decorum in the room.  We want to make sure that we’re 
moving New Jersey in a positive direction with things that we need to take 
mindful of. 
 
 
The State of New Jersey--  I know that we generate 
approximately 75% of the electric that we use.  And, of that 75%, about 
half of it comes from natural gas, and we’ve got about 30% coming from -- 
35% from nuclear -- and then the rest from renewables and various others. 
 
 
We have energy needs in New Jersey.  As the Governor has 
stated over the past couple years that he wants to move us into heat pumps 
as a form of heating; he wants to move us by installing more amounts of EV 
charging stations across the state.  That’s an impact to the energy that we’re 
going to need -- an increased need. 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
So, to put it in layman’s terms, 75% of our homes are heated 
with natural gas, and 65% of our businesses are heated with natural gas.  An 
important number, so, if we’re going to convert that all over to electric, 
you’re putting in another heat pump.  And, that’s like adding another 
electric stove in your house.  And, one of the slower charging stations that 
are across--  To charge our electric vehicles, they take a 50-amp circuit.  
That’s another electric stove.  And, if you have a quick charging station, 
they use 100 amps.  And, that’s an amount of power that’s in a small 
residential house. 
 
 
And, as we’re moving New Jersey across and increasing our 
bandwidth and the need for data, be mindful as AI is coming into the 
picture and becoming more prominent.  One unit--  One data center that 
they’re talking about building is going to need 800 million watts.  What is 
that?  I could tell you that the three reactors -- nuclear reactors -- that are 
down in South Jersey are about 2.2 billion each.  So, you can see that it’s 
more than one of the reactors that are down there now.  And, that’s the 
demand; that’s not what you build it for.  That’s more than the power that 
was supplied by Oyster Creek.  When we shut it down a number of years 
ago, the country’s oldest nuclear reactor -- which, back then, that was about 
675 million watts, and, for those who are older, like myself, we remember 
Mercer Gen right here on the river.  It was a coal gas plant that generated 
about 365 million watts.  There’s power needed across this state. 
 
 
So, the testimony that we’re going to hear today from PJM and 
the Board of Public Utilities; from our four electric companies; and for 
those utility associations and for those interested parties, we’re going to 
help form and sculpt what we’re doing going forward.  We do need to do 
 
 
 
4 
more.  We are going to have more hearings on more, just not today.  We’ve 
got to diversify our energy generation.  I’m a person who does not like to 
put all my eggs in one basket.  We need to discuss offshore wind; we need 
to discuss doing more with solar; we need to discuss battery storage.  These 
will be things that will increase that--  We’ll be discussing that as we move 
forward, but, we’ve got to be mindful of cold winters; we’ve got to be 
mindful when it’s hot in the summer. 
 
 
So, with that being said, I am going to start testimony.  If I can 
have Assemblyman Miller, Assemblywoman Katz, and Assemblyman 
Rumpf.  Please come forward. 
 
 
And, I can just start the testimony in that order, it would be 
great.  If you could please, Assembly members, welcome.  Just make sure--  I 
think you have to have the little red light on.  You have to press your 
microphone. 
 
 
Assemblyman, welcome. 
A S S E M B L Y M A N   C O D Y   D.   M I L L E R:  Thank you. 
 
 
I would like to begin by thanking Speaker Coughlin, Chairman 
DeAngelo, and Vice Chair Kennedy for holding this important meeting. 
 
 
I speak today in unison with my colleagues from the Fourth 
Legislative District, Senator Paul Moriarty and Assemblyman Dan 
Hutchison, and we bring to you the concerns we have heard from many of 
our 210,000 constituents in the Fourth District. 
 
 
The cost of electric bills this summer is about more than just 
the price to keep your lights on and your air conditioner running.  It’s about 
affordability.  Far too often, our office hears of examples where a senior will 
have to choose between putting food on the table; purchasing the medicine 
 
 
 
5 
they need; or keeping their home at a comfortable temperature during the 
summer months. 
 
 
On a more personal note, I think about my mother, who 
worked two jobs and supported the four of us as a single mom.  And, in 
some instances, for her, seeing a utility bill spike from $150 a month to 
$800 a month is just unacceptable, and I know that there are many families 
who are in that same scenario. 
 
 
We know that 37% of people in this country cannot afford an 
unexpected expense of $400, which, in this case, may mean only a couple of 
unexpectedly high energy bills.  We acknowledge that electric companies 
have certainly attempted to communicate with their customers about usage 
rates.  But, unfortunately, these lines of communication do not always reach 
everybody.  Our office has fielded many phone calls from people who do 
not have the electronic means to receive these updates, and we must 
communicate with these consumers where they are.  We know that this 
summer ranks among the warmest summers on record in New Jersey, and 
we don’t expect temperatures to be going down in the future.  So, the cost 
of electric is something that will not be going away for our residents. 
 
 
Additionally, with rising costs, we have heard from utility 
companies that they have been investing heavily in infrastructure upgrades 
to ensure that the grid is resistant to more extreme weather conditions our 
area has experienced recently.  As legislators, it is our main job to bring the 
concerns of our constituents to Trenton, and figure out how we can 
implement and improve public policies that not only improve their lives, 
but make New Jersey more affordable.  This may entail looking at some of 
the mandates that the State has imposed that could not prioritize 
 
 
 
6 
affordability and coming up with longer-term more price-effective solutions 
for clean, renewable energy. 
 
 
I appreciate hearing from all the stakeholders to help educate 
us, because conversations like this, that we are having in a public forum 
here today--  We can begin to get answers for our constituents. 
To the utility providers:  Your willingness to engage is essential 
as we navigate these challenges together. 
I want to assure our constituents that we are listening to their 
concerns and are committed to advocating for affordable energy solutions 
for all New Jersey residents. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Assemblyman. 
Assemblywoman. 
Good morning. 
A S S E M B L Y W O M A N   A N D R E A   K A T Z:  Good morning. 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman and Committee members, for having this 
hearing this morning. 
 
 
I am here today on behalf of the 230,000 people who I 
represent in Burlington-Atlantic counties, and we are all looking for 
answers. 
 
 
I received countless calls from my constituents, because they 
are seeing what I have been seeing:  Skyrocketing electric bills.  These rate 
hikes hurt middle-class families.  I heard it from my neighbors, and I saw it 
on my own electric bill.  The utilities, like Exelon, have seen their stocks 
soar 10% over the last year, while at the same time, families in New Jersey 
are paying hundreds of dollars more a month for their electric bills.  We 
 
 
 
7 
can’t expect people to be able to afford to make their homes more energy 
efficient while they are paying exorbitant prices.  It is even more 
unconscionable, because these companies’ shareholders are seeing 
humongous gains at the very same time. 
 
 
I sent a letter requesting this meeting with some of my South 
Jersey colleagues, because everyone deserves transparency into what 
happened last summer.  This should be an opportunity to learn what went 
wrong and fix this immediately.  People are paying attention to our work 
today, and they rightfully expect us to do something that will bring down 
costs. 
 
 
When I was running for my seat last year, I knocked on 
thousands and thousands of doors, and the thing that I heard more than 
anything else was that people wanted the Legislature to make New Jersey 
more affordable.  It is up to us as legislators to do something, because 
people can’t continue to pay more, and it simply doesn’t have to be this 
way.  And, we shouldn’t have to hold hearings to get basic answers as to 
why our electric bills have shot through the roof. 
In response to the rate hikes, I am going to be introducing 
legislation that would require the BPU to consider affordability before 
approving base rates for utilities.  This will be a great first step in bringing 
costs down, but there is a lot of work for us to do together. 
So, thank you again, Chairman, and Committee members, for 
holding this hearing today.  And, I am eager to hear from BPU and the 
utilities on how we can avoid these sorts of hikes in the future. 
Thank you. 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Assemblywoman. 
 
 
 
8 
Morning, Assemblyman, how are you? 
A S S E M B L Y M A N   B R I A N   E.   R U M P F:  Good morning, 
Chairman.  It’s good to see you. 
 
 
And, Chairman, I submitted prepared testimony on behalf of 
myself, Senator Amato, Assemblyman Myhre. 
I would like to supplement that with just a few additional 
comments by first thanking you, Chairman, Vice Chairman Kennedy, and 
the Committee, for conducting this hearing. 
 
 
I was compelled to attend to represent my constituents.  As you 
may know, the Ninth District has the highest proportion of seniors in the 
State of New Jersey, and our seniors -- I would submit -- are those more 
disproportionately affected by rising utility rates. 
 
 
It’s easy to cast blame upon our electric companies and our gas 
companies, because that’s who we know; that’s who sends us our bill in the 
mail every month.  The problem, as this Committee is aware, is far deeper.  
If you know or understand the Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, 
interconnect PCAM, where the auction process which sets utility rates that 
we are all caused to pay. 
Few also understand the administration’s Energy Master Plan, 
and that, I would submit, is where the problem lies, and where this 
Legislative body can truly make a difference.  Solar and wind constitute 8% 
of New Jersey’s power currently.  And, the Governor has actually set a goal 
of 35% by 2025 -- next year.  Unlikely we’re going to make that goal.  We 
have allowed power-generation plants -- both gas and nuclear -- to shut 
down, while simultaneously voting on wasteful subsidies for wind and solar.  
I would submit, Mr. Chairman, that the issue is supply and demand. 
 
 
 
9 
We turn away nuclear, or fail to encourage nuclear or gas 
supply, while wasting millions or even billions on the inefficient wind 
projects which threaten our coastlines.  The bottom line is that my 
constituents and yours cannot afford to continue down the Murphy 
Administration’s yellow brick road.  I would submit that that would only 
exacerbate the crisis that we are all currently facing. 
I therefore implore this Committee and the Legislative body as 
a whole to scrap the Governor’s plan, encourage investment of nuclear and 
natural gas, clean energy, and help to reduce the cost of energy for all New 
Jerseyans. 
I thank you. 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Assemblyman. 
The three of you--  Thank you very much for taking the time 
out and testifying before the Committee.  I appreciate your time and 
respect your opinions. 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN KATZ:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Mr. Chairman? 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Yes, Assemblyman. 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
I just wanted to echo what my colleagues, Assemblyman Miller 
and Assemblywoman Katz had to say this morning. 
I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, and the entire Committee, 
for calling this hearing. 
I certainly want to thank the BPU, Atlantic City Electric, 
PSE&G, and other stakeholders for participating. 
 
 
 
10 
I also want to commend both the BPU and Atlantic City 
Electric for their responsiveness both to our office and our constituents in 
the Third Legislative District that we’ve been hearing a lot from. 
Our goal in reaching out to you and hoping to call this hearing 
today was to respond to those constituents’ concerns regarding their 
unexpectedly high electric bills over the summer, and provide some 
transparency as to factors that affect those costs. 
We are listening, as my colleagues have said, and we will do all 
in our power to ensure energy prices remain affordable for the working 
people of New Jersey. 
In addition, it is our goal to provide customers with the 
information and tools necessary to keep their utility bills in check.  This 
hearing is an important step in that direction. 
Senator Burzichelli, Assemblywoman Simmons, and I have also 
introduced legislation to create what is called the Energy Bill Watch.  It’s a 
program that is an opt-out program that would ensure customers receive 
ample notice of high usage in the early billing cycle, and empower them to 
make informed usage decisions to avoid sticker shock at the end of the 
month. 
I look forward to participating in further policy discussions 
focused on utility affordability, and that will undoubtedly result from 
today’s testimony. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
Are there any other Committee members who wish to make a 
statement? 
 
 
 
11 
Assemblyman. 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
I just wanted to commend my colleague, Assemblyman Rumpf, 
and his colleagues Assemblyman Myhre and Senator Amato, for the 
testimony and touching on the wind issue, and really what I think I believe 
is the Don Quixote-esque quest for green energy and pushing it before it’s 
ready for prime time, and doing that with all the taxpayer subsidies -- which 
I think is the root cause of why we’re facing all these ratepayer increases -- 
and I appreciate you setting the table today, because I hope that this 
hearing gets to the bottom of that, and we’re able to uncover all the money 
that’s been spent for that quest, and the lack of investment in traditional 
infrastructure, and everything that’s gone into that as well. 
So, thank you, Assemblyman. 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Assemblyman. 
Assemblyman Barranco. 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Mr. Chairman, first of all -- 
and, I echo the sentiments of others here -- thank you, Mr. Chairman, for 
giving us the opportunity to have this conversation. 
As you know, I’ve known you for a long time.  I am in the 
electrical infrastructure business, and there’s a lot about what I know about 
what needs to happen here and what has happened here, and I thank you 
for taking the time to get these people together and have this conversation.  
Because, I believe that the Legislature needs to take a leadership position in 
this particular question. 
And, I especially want to say something, because I’ve never 
been to a Committee meeting where my Assembly mates sit down and talk 
 
 
 
12 
to us.  So, it’s especially important that the two of you are here -- the three 
of you are here -- to speak to us about this, because it proves that the 
Legislature can take a leadership position on this role.  We have people 
from both sides of the aisle; we have Democrats and Republicans not only 
up here, but in the gallery.  That’s an important thing.  And it -- like I said -
- it reinforces the fact that we can take a leadership position in this 
particular role. 
And, I’m going to say this, and I’m going to be finished.  We 
have a very difficult decision to make, and there’s two words that this crew 
of three legislators brought up, that I’m going to shed some light on and 
then we’ll continue.  And, that is two words:  affordable and renewable.  We 
need to strike a balance.  And, this is where the Assembly can take a 
leadership, is that we need to take a--  We need to strike a balance between 
affordable and renewable.  Because, in the world of engineering, those two 
are diametrically opposed, I promise you.  And, we need to really face facts 
and do some very, very smart legislation if we’re going to fix this problem. 
So, today is going to be a very, very fun day.  I just want to 
start with that statement. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
Any other Assembly members?  (no response) 
All right, thank you. 
Right now, our next speaker -- if I can please call up the 
President for the Board of Public Utilities. 
Good morning. 
 
 
 
13 
C H R I S T I N E   G U H L - S A D O V Y:  Good morning Chairman, 
Vice Chair, members of the Committee. 
 
 
Thank you so much for inviting me to be here.  I am here with 
our Executive Director and Acting General Counsel, Bob Brabston, in part 
because we have many matters that are open and pending before the Board 
that may come up, and, so, I want to make sure that we have counsel here 
to acknowledge those issues. 
 
 
So, I did submit a statement, I hope you all got a chance to 
look at it.  I won’t read it, I’ll just touch on, I think, some of the main 
points and then hopefully we’ll have some questions and it’ll be fun, as you 
said, Assemblyman.  
 
 
So, I just want to start by saying, again, thank you.  I think this 
is an important opportunity to bring transparency and shed light on some 
of the issues that we have been talking about.  But, I want to say first, we 
understand that no one wants to see their electric bill go up.  We are 
committed to ensuring affordability; we have many energy-assistance 
programs as well as energy-efficiency programs through the Board of Public 
Utilities to help people both afford to pay their bill at times when they do 
go up, and also to help support reducing their bill so that, in the future, 
they won’t -- we won’t see as significant an increase. 
 
 
One of the things that I do want to point out that we just 
instituted was the Residential Energy Assistance Payment Initiative.  That 
was a one-time bill credit that went to eligible -- qualifying and eligible 
customers, it was approximately 278,000 customers, it was a $175 bill 
credit, and it was -- it should be, right now, hitting peoples’ bills at a time 
that we’re coming off of a very hot summer.  So, that was a particularly 
 
 
 
14 
important initiative, I think, of Governor Murphy’s and mine to ensure that 
those customers who need it most were able to get that bill credit at a time 
when we saw a very hot summer as some have mentioned, and some higher 
usage. 
 
 
So, I want to shed a little bit of light on what goes into the 
utility bill and the main components are generation and distribution.  
Generation is approximately 60-70% of the utility bill, and it is procured -- 
generation is procured.  Energy is a commodity, and this year we saw that 
commodity go up.  We procure it through something called the BGS 
auction -- the utilities procure it, the Board of Public Utilities oversees it.  
And, because of what was referenced here already, there’s a supply and 
demand (indiscernible) that’s been -- that’s smaller, the cost of energy has 
gone up, and that has had an impact on bills starting in the beginning of the 
summer. 
 
 
And, we understand, again, that no one wants to see their bill 
go up, and we are trying to do what we can to see -- to see customers -- to 
provide assistance when customers need it.  But, that generation portion of 
the bill is something that is outside of the control of the Board of Public 
Utilities.  It is, again, done through an auction process, and those costs have 
gone up. 
 
 
As pointed out, we need more generation.  That is--  That is an 
important thing, and I think one of the main takeaways that we probably 
will all share today, is that we do need more generation.  We, over the last 
couple of decades, have not seen a significant demand increase in energy 
use, in part because we’ve done a really good job in energy efficiency, and so 
we’ve helped to bring -- to keep that demand flatter.  But, we have seen 
 
 
 
15 
energy demand go up, and so we do need more generation.  And, the 
Governor and the BPU are striving to see that generation come from clean 
resources, not just renewable, but as the Chairman mentioned, we have a 
significant nuclear generation fleet in New Jersey that we rely on for our 
power.  So, we want to make sure that that’s coming from clean generation 
and that we are able to get more of it. 
 
 
So, that’s the generation portion of the bill, and then there’s 
the distribution portion of the bill, which encompasses several things, but 
one of them is the necessary infrastructure improvements.  The way that 
infrastructure improvements are paid for by the utilities is through a rate 
case, and those infrastructure improvements are even more necessary as we 
see the extreme impacts of climate change.  We saw a very hot summer.  It 
was our second hottest June on record in New Jersey.  It was a hot summer 
across the nation, and we are going to see a strain on the infrastructure as a 
result of those climate impacts.  And, so, the utilities are investing in the 
infrastructure -- the necessary infrastructure improvements  -- and those 
things get paid for through rate cases. 
 
 
And, just -- so those are kind of the two very basic -- I’m 
definitely oversimplifying, and I’m happy to go into more detail through 
questions.  But, those are the two very basic components, is generation and 
distribution.  As was pointed out, we had a very hot summer.  It was, again, 
hot across the nation.  It was a very hot July, but a particularly hot June 
into July.  And, the main driver of the increases over the summer was an 
increase in usage.  So, the usage increase across New Jersey, amongst the 
four investor-owned utilities, was anywhere from 12-16%.  That’s over last 
year. 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
And, so, in addition, last year was a lower usage.  So, we are 
seeing -- in addition to higher usage this year -- year-over-year, it was a 
greater increase than what I think people were familiar with. 
 
 
We did--  Again, we heard from some of your offices and we 
heard from constituents, and we are always making sure that when we get 
any constituent or resident inquiry about their bill that we’re following up; 
that we’re doing the appropriate action; that we’re connecting them with 
any resources that they may need to help pay their bill; and that we provide 
as much clarity as possible. 
 
 
So, I will stop there because you have my written testimony, 
and I want to answer any questions that you have. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Well, thank you, Madam 
President. 
 
 
And, I just want to echo one of the things that hopefully, that 
this Committee and other legislators get out of it are things that we need to 
do and changes that we need to do. 
 
 
In the beginning of my statement, I kind of said that in New 
Jersey, we only generate about 75% of what we use.  And, if we weren’t in a 
multi-state grid, we would be in trouble.  So, we would be like the problem 
that Texas had. 
 
 
So, I am mindful of that, and hopefully this Committee and 
other legislators get ideas for energy-efficiency programs so that we’re not 
just talking about generating more, because you can see, substantially, the 
amount of power -- as I said in opening testimony -- on what we’re going to 
need in the future in the next 10 years, but using less. 
 
 
 
17 
 
 
All right, so, that might be one of the--  Hopefully, that’ll spark 
out some discussion on using less power as part of a multi-bill plan after we 
get done with the hearing. 
 
 
Does any Committee members have any questions for the 
president? 
 
 
Yes, Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Mr. Chairman, again, thank 
you for holding this hearing; Vice Chair, thank you. 
 
 
I think this is warranted and should be a good session. 
 
 
My question is, you mentioned about a $275 bill credit? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Oh, $175. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  One-seventy-five, sorry.  One-
seventy-five. 
 
 
Who qualifies for that? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  It’s through--  We use the winter-
termination program qualifications.  So, the winter-termination program is--  
It prevents people who are low income or income qualifying from having 
their utilities turned off during the winter period. 
 
 
And, so, there are various eligibility qualifications based on 
income.  So, if you were already enrolled in the winter-termination 
program, you automatically got the bill credit.  That was really important to 
us.  We didn’t want people to have to fill out an additional amount of 
paperwork to get this bill credit, so it was an automatic eligibility if you had 
enrolled in winter termination. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  So, they would have enrolled 
based on certain criteria-- 
 
 
 
18 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Yes-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  --they would have been allowed 
into that program. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  So, not just anybody could have 
gotten into that program, initially. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Right.  But, if there was an economic 
hardship, that that’s one of the winter-termination program qualifications. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  OK, great. 
 
 
And, how many households did that-- 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Two-hundred--  It was 278,000 
customers. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Two-hundred-seventy-eight 
thousand.  And, that’s one time? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  It was one time, yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  OK, thank you. 
 
 
And, this is in no way a loaded question I’m asking.  There was 
a rate increase approved by BPU that took effect--  Is it June that it took 
effect? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Right. 
 
 
What was that increase? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  So, the BGS, the auction increase -- 
just to be clear, that’s the generation cost.  We certify it, but it’s based on 
an auction, so we certify the results.  It was--  It depended on the service 
territory.  It’s anywhere from, I think, roughly 5-8% of an average bill.  And, 
 
 
 
19 
I know that that is really confusing to people -- the rates versus bills.  So, 
that was 5-8% for an average customer bill. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Yes, so, to the layman 
ratepayer, there’s two major components, right?  There’s what you call the 
BGS, which is the supply of the actual energy -- the source of the energy -- 
and then there’s the distribution component. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  That’s right. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  So, what you’re talking about is 
the increase was approved to go up on the source. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Correct; yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  All right. 
 
 
What’s the incentive--  Let me ask you this question. 
 
 
The BGS portion of it--  Is that a 100% pass through by the 
utilities? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Yes, they don’t--  They’re not making 
money off of that. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  It’s 100% pass through. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Right. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  OK. 
 
 
What’s--  What is the incentive for them to get the lowest rate 
on that? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  I’m not--  I’m not sure I understand the 
question. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Given that it’s a 100% pass-
through--  I mean, if I’m buying it, I’m not going to be worried about the 
cost of it if I’m passing it through 100%, right? 
 
 
 
20 
 
 
So, what’s the incentive when they go out to get this, that 
they’re getting the lowest rate, which, ultimately, the ratepayer is going to 
pay? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  So, it’s -- it is a -- it is done through a 
bidding process, so, it is just like an auction.  It’s like a lowest bid; the 
generators bid and the utilities procure it through a bidding process. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Are there any guidelines to say, 
“Hey, you need to go to another one,” or how do they bid it in a way where 
they get the lowest rate so, ultimately, the ratepayer is getting a lower rate 
versus whatever?  Do they hit the first bid and we’re good and-- 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  So, there’s a--  They’re not the bidding, 
the generators are bidding, and they’re buying it.  So, it’s done just like a--  
I mean, it is a much more complicated process than, like, an auction house 
auction.  But they’re buying it, they’re looking for the lowest rate, and 
they’re in a regulatory compact, so-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  But, as far as you know, there’s 
nothing that incentivizes the utilities to ensure they’re -- and some kind of 
guidelines that are saying, “Hey, we’re going to fight to the lowest rate, 
because ultimately the ratepayer is paying that.” 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  So, that--  I mean, that is always the 
goal, is to get the lowest rate from any generator. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  OK, let me ask you this, too. 
 
 
If it’s 100% now, is there any reason utilities couldn’t take 5% 
of it?  You know, why does 100% of it have to be passed to the ratepayers?  
Why can’t they take a hit on 5% of it being a business, making money and 
not pass through 100% to the ratepayer? 
 
 
 
21 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  So, they--  I mean, they have the 
opportunity to earn on the other part of the bill because they’re--  We’re in 
a regulatory compact, they’re regulated by the BPU.  And, so, they have -- 
there’s just -- that’s not the opportunity for them to earn a profit.  They 
have the opportunity because they maintain and upgrade the infrastructure; 
and, so, that’s where their opportunity to make money is, as opposed to just 
procuring it. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Theoretically, they could take 
some of it, though, right? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  So, Assemblyman, if I could.  
If we could kind of direct the questions to be a little bit more--  Because 
we’re getting into hypotheticals, right? 
 
 
So, I just want to get the testimony on the process, and if we 
have to discuss potential changes to the process -- because I don’t think it’s 
fair to the president to go on-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Sorry, she was educating me. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Right, yes, they’re getting into 
ideas and things that may be more on the PJM side versus what kind of 
comes across her desk. 
 
 
So, just before you complete, is there any other member who 
wishes to ask the president a question? 
 
 
Assemblyman.  David, you said you wanted to-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  (indiscernible) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  I’m a little vertically challenged, so 
let me lower the stand to make sure that I see you properly. 
 
 
 
22 
 
 
Thank you.  Again, I really appreciate you being here today and 
being a part of this conversation. 
 
 
As you mentioned, and as you’ve said in your testimony, there 
are just so many great assistance programs and incentives for schools and 
nonprofits and residents and businesses and government entities to make 
use of.  And, you’ve named a few of them today -- Universal Service Fund 
as well, that goes into that. 
 
 
But, it’s my understanding that, annually, that not all that 
money is spent that’s budgeted for those programs.  Could you kind of 
speak to that a little bit, and then, where does that--  What happens with 
that money when it’s not spent for those particular programs? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Sure, it depends on which program it 
is. 
 
 
So, the Residential Energy Assistance Payment Initiative that I 
referenced came from uncommitted funds from the Clean Energy Fund, 
which is funded through the Societal Benefits Charge.  The USF -- which 
you mentioned, Universal Service Fund -- is trued up on an annual basis 
depending on the budget that’s necessary to provide assistance to the 
customers who need it year over year.  So, it is different depending on 
which fund is -- which of those streams is being utilized. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  OK.  Again, I don’t want to throw 
-- miss the point, here.  These are tremendous programs that are needed in 
the state by many, many hundreds of thousands of people, as you’ve 
mentioned. 
 
 
Regarding the Societal Benefits Charge, is that--  It’s my 
understanding that’s a flat 3% charge-- 
 
 
 
23 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Right-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  --on everyone’s rates. 
 
 
So, in theory, if my bill goes up, the amount of my -- that I’m 
giving into the Societal Benefit goes up as well, right? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  And, it funds different--  It funds 
different programs, not just clean-energy funds.  It also funds energy 
assistance and other costs as well, but, yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  OK. 
 
 
And, again, it is much needed and does some great good.  I just 
-- just something, Mr. Chairman, down the road to take a look at, that’s 
something that -- a number that we should take a look at capping or seeing 
where, how that fits in along those lines.  If there are funds that are being 
set aside, not spent, and then--  In some certain areas is that something that 
we should take a look at? 
 
 
Appreciate it; thank you, thank you very much. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Sure. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you so much. 
 
 
Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
So, I literally ran for the Assembly because of energy issues.  It 
affects my district, and, I don’t want to speak for the Chairman or anything 
like that, but he mentioned 75% of production. 
 
 
And, what I’ve confirmed is that New Jersey actually is now an 
importer of energy.  Do you know how many years ago New Jersey was 
actually an exporter of energy? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  I don’t know. 
 
 
 
24 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  OK, I believe it was less than a 
decade ago.  That I don’t know for sure, but what I do know is that New 
Jersey is now an importer of energy.  And, we have this shell game where we 
make it seem like we’re green-energy friendly, but the majority of the energy 
that we import actually comes from Pennsylvania. 
 
 
And, what is the main source of energy in Pennsylvania?  I’m 
sure you know, it’s mostly fossil fuels.  My grandfather and my great-
grandfather were coal miners, actually, out in Pennsylvania, and that’s what 
drives the state. 
 
 
Do you have any insight for us how we could have possibly 
gone from being a net exporter of energy just less than 10 years ago to now 
an importer of energy using dirty fossil fuels from Pennsylvania, which the 
pollutants in the air don’t know state borders, so they’re just floating right 
across as if we were generating them here in New Jersey ourselves. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Well, so I just want to start--  So, the 
electrons come from all over PJM.  So, it’s not just Pennsylvania to New 
Jersey-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Right, right, I’m talking about 
energy in a broader sense-- 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  --they -- right.  But, they flow back and 
forth, and that’s part of why it’s really important that we invest in clean 
generation and clean energy in New Jersey so that we can increase more of 
the electrons coming from clean generation and reduce our reliance on 
fossil-fuel generation, no matter where it is from.  So-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Understood.  But, do you 
believe that there is a right time to mandate that we reach certain 
 
 
 
25 
thresholds like mandating that everybody in New Jersey has an electric car, 
for instance, when our grid can’t even remotely handle it?  Or, having to 
subsidize an industry like the wind industry that can’t financially stand on 
its own, and we’re trying to force the issue? 
 
 
Because, my theory is, the Governor said a lot that he wants us 
to be like California.  You look at California, didn’t they have to stand up 
(indiscernible) three different fossil fuel plants because their energy -- their 
green-energy pursuits -- weren’t able to come in as quickly as they thought?  
And, now they’re generating more power from fossil fuels as well.  Aren’t we 
heading in that exact same direction that we’ve already seen the warning 
flags for? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  So, let me just start by saying I think 
that we’re seeing warning flags because of climate change for a lot--  And, a 
lot of these issues are directly related to climate change, even increasing 
infrastructure costs, as I said. 
 
 
Part of one of the recent rate cases was building a new 
substation in Cape May, and ensuring that that substation was flood-
resistant.  So, when you say, “When is the time?”  This is the time to act, 
because if we don’t act and develop our clean-energy resources and reduce 
our carbon emission and our reliance on fossil fuels, we’re going to see 
increases in costs directly related to utility costs. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  We’re not arguing about having 
a clean environment.  I mean, there’s nobody more environmentally 
friendly than my district, is the Jersey Shore.  It’s all beach town mayors; 
we’re all champions of the coast; we all are very environmentally friendly.  
It’s more about the timeline of everything, which is what I’m trying to look 
 
 
 
26 
at.  And, I think what my fear is, is that we aren’t investing in the actual 
sources that are powering us right now that are standing up right now.  Do 
you have any idea how many through -- and, maybe that’s a question for 
PJM when they come -- but, how many traditional energy sources we’ve 
turned offline recently, and how that’s affecting the rate increases that we 
could potentially be facing and lack of energy we maybe have available to us 
this winter? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  So, I think that is a question for PJM 
in terms of how many, but I think what we are seeing is that we need more 
generation.  We’re seeing the nuclear reactor in Pennsylvania, Three Mile 
Island, coming back online because we need more generation, and our 
commitment in New Jersey is to help further generation that is clean and 
not contributing to what we are already seeing, which is the impacts of 
climate change. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Any other Assembly members -- yes, Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  Thank you, Chairman. First 
off I want to say, Chairman, thank you so much for having the three 
legislators who started this.  We learn a lot from each other.  I mean we all 
represent about 221,000.  Andrea Katz (indiscernible) another 100,00 
somewhere. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Two-hundred-thirty. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  She knows it. 
 
 
 
27 
 
 
And, it’s very important because I didn’t even know, 
Assemblyman, we both had the biggest senior population.  So, that’s great 
for his re-election someday. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  But, to the audience, it’s very 
important to know also that these legislators bring instant knowledge.  
There is no one who knows that Andrea Katz knocked on 10,000 doors.  
We know it.  And, that’s 10,000 constituents that she got to get their 
opinions on this.  And, then Assemblyman Miller, the day after we’re sworn 
in, is campaigning on 10,000 more doors.  So, they are getting instant 
answers to what residents want. 
 
 
I didn’t know Assemblyman Kanitra had the most energy 
efficient, but I’ll believe him. 
 
 
To the BPU, thank you for being here.  I am a big fan of your 
social programs.  I get all the emails and they were in the 33rd District at 
one point helping with all these programs, especially the ones that help low 
income.  I had one of the--  I guess we’re all saying things that we have in 
our district, so, I have one of the toughest districts when it comes to energy, 
because our buildings are pretty much all 1920s built.  So, I am very hawk-
eye aware when I get any emails whether it be from Madam President, 
Sophia, or Taryn sending us programs. 
 
 
But, my biggest concern is, what is the BPU -- that’s the softball 
-- otherwise, what is the most immediate plan the BPU has, innovation 
wise, because that 75% that the Chairman was talking about is going down.  
Assemblyman Kanitra is right about that, and it is going to continue going 
down, unfortunately, and the states around us, like the Ohios and all that, 
 
 
 
28 
are no longer providing as much because they have their own energy 
problems. 
 
 
So, what is our biggest innovation project that the BPU is going 
to lead on in the next five years to keep the cost at least at today’s cost in 
five years, instead of inflation-excused hikes? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Sure.  So, again, more generation is 
what is -- is a big part of how we can keep the rates down.  But, I do want 
to just point out when someone, a customer -- and, I don’t need to tell all of 
you this, because you deal with your constituents every day -- but, the bill, 
the bottom line on the bill is what people care about. 
 
 
So, rates can fluctuate, but if your bill is lower, that’s what 
matters to a customer.  And, if your bill is higher, that’s when you need 
assistance. 
 
 
So, I think, under the Governor’s leadership, we have been 
innovative for the last several years in helping to further bring in more clean 
generation online.  And, one of the things that I talk about a lot that I think 
is really important when we talk about affordability, particularly for low-
income customers, is community solar.  So, that-- We have been a nation-
leading state on community solar, and the program that we developed in 
New Jersey helps to allow customers who wouldn’t have the opportunity to 
have a residential solar installation, either they, just for affordability issues, 
cannot do that, or they live in an apartment where their roof faces the 
wrong way, or whatever the issue is, and they can subscribe to a central 
solar project, get the benefits of clean energy, and get a 20% bill credit.  
That is our program, and that is how we are matching clean energy with 
affordability in New Jersey.  Anyone can subscribe to a project that’s in 
 
 
 
29 
your service territory.  More solar projects are coming online, and that is 
available regardless of income. 
 
 
So, you can subscribe, regardless of your income, and get a 20% 
bill credit.  And, I think that that is really such a significant program that 
this administration has both stood up from the very beginning and 
continued to move forward.  And, we demonstrated that because we 
recently got $156 million grant from the Federal government to further our 
work on making sure that solar is available to all residents in New Jersey, 
and I think that that really highlights the importance of that program and 
of the great work that the Governor and this administration has done to 
support residents. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Any other questions so we move on? 
 
 
Oh, one more. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’ll 
be brief.  Just following up on the initial question I had. 
 
 
The 278,000 that are getting the $175 credit. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Great, I mean, I certainly 
appreciate lowering the bills. 
 
 
By my math, that’s almost $49 million total, though.  How is 
that getting funded? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  That’s through--  It was uncommitted 
funds from the SPC, from the Clean Energy Program, that were not 
committed to a program, and so we felt that it was important to return that 
 
 
 
30 
to ratepayers, for people who needed it most being those who are eligible 
for the winter-termination program. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  So, that actually came from the 
Clean Energy Fund? 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  That’s right. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  OK, great. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Sure. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
And, thank you, Madam President, for your testimony-- 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Thank you; thanks, Chairman-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  --and for your time. 
 
 
MS. GUHL-SADOVY:  Thank you. 
 
 
Thank you, everyone.  Have a wonderful day. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Next, if I can call up please Jason Stanek, the Executive 
Director of Government Services for PJM. 
 
 
Good morning. 
J A S O N   M.  S T A N E K:  Thank you. 
 
 
Good morning, Mr. Chairman; Mr. Vice Chairman; members of 
the Committee. 
 
 
I am Jason Stanek, Executive Director at PJM, with my 
associate, Stu Widom, here today to provide a briefing on what PJM is and 
our interaction with respect to some of these prices that you’ve experienced 
in New Jersey. 
 
 
 
31 
 
 
PJM is the grid operator; it’s the largest grid operator in North 
America.  We served over 65 million residents, including the 9 million folks 
who live here in the State of New Jersey.  We’re an organization that, 
Number 1, we maintain reliability of the grid 24/7, 365.  But, we are not a 
policy organization, nor do we set any utility rates, as you just heard from 
the BPU President.  They are your state utility regulator, and they are 
responsible for setting retail utility rates. 
 
 
What we do is we are effectively the air traffic controller from 
our headquarters in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, of directing the flow of 
electrons across our jurisdiction, which includes 13 states and the District of 
Columbia.  We also are in charge of the interstate transmission planning of 
the grid, so these are the high-voltage wires, 345 KV and above, that 
intersect and deliver power to all of the utilities in your state here. 
 
 
We also manage the markets, which I’ll discuss in a bit, 
including the capacity markets and the energy markets in order to ensure 
that we have a reliable supply of electricity to serve your customers not only 
today but into the future. 
 
 
We are regulated fully by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission.  They are the wholesale utility regulator, in comparison to the 
Board of Public Utilities who serves as the retail utility regulator.  But, we 
estimate the value proposition of PJM saves customers in our footprint 
approximately $3-4 billion a year due to the efficiencies of being a part of a 
very competitive market. 
 
 
As we all know, we are in the midst of an energy transition.  
Whether it be consumer preferences, State policies, Federal policies such as 
the Climate Bill provisions that were in the Inflation Reduction Act.  We’re 
 
 
 
32 
seeing a transition away from our thermal resources, including coal, natural 
gas, oil, diesel, and others. 
 
 
But, as we heard from some of the members and from the BPU 
president, we are in the midst of a transition, and we’re seeing a tightening 
of supply and an increase in demand.  And, they’re going in opposite 
directions.  And, they’re going in opposite directions relatively quickly. 
 
 
Earlier this year, we released a load forecast, effectively what we 
estimate for increases in demand.  And, the 2024 trendlines were head and 
shoulders above all prior years.  And, why is that?  Part of the reason is 
electric vehicles.  It’s data centers; the movement of artificial intelligence.  
So, all the issues that you’ve been hearing about -- this issue of co-locating 
large customers with merchant nuclear fleets.  These are issues that we are 
grappling with right now to ensure that reliability remains not only today 
but into the future. 
 
 
One example I just want to share is, even though our system -- 
we peak out at about 165 gigawatts -- that’s equivalent to 165,000 
megawatts.  And, just keep in mind one megawatt could power somewhere 
in the neighborhood of 600-700 homes.  But, over the past 12 months, 
from the summer of 2023 to the summer of 2024, we saw 4,000 megawatts 
of resources retire; no longer available to PJM.  We also saw our peak 
increase by 4,000 megawatts.  So, that’s an 8,000-megawatt difference in 
just a short period of 12 months.  This is concerning to the grid operator. 
 
 
We also operate what is called a Capacity Market.  And, the 
Capacity Market ensures that we have sufficient resources lined up three 
years into the future.  We’ve run an auction, which is different than the 
BGS auction that you just heard. This is our capacity auction, and we are 
 
 
 
33 
set to run that auction annually.  The last auction results were released in 
July, end of July of this year, and they increased dramatically over the 
course of the prior year, almost by a factor of nine.  And, what this was a 
manifestation of was the fact that we have these tightening economic 
conditions, and it’s basic economic fundamentals that when you have 
reducing supply and increasing demand, the price will go much higher.  
And, we saw the price go from approximately $29 a megawatt day to 
upwards of $270 a megawatt day right here in New Jersey. 
 
 
I’d also like to touch on--  We heard some references to the 
interconnection queue.  And, what the interconnection queue is, is with 
respect to generators who want to actually tie into the PJM system, they 
need to go through a process of review at PJM by our planning department 
before they can actually reliably connect to the grid.  We’ve seen in recent 
years a tremendous increase in the number of resources.  It used to be, let’s 
say, a coal-fired station or a natural gas station, maybe we received about 
200 requests a year.  That number doubled and then it quadrupled and 
then we were receiving upwards of 1,300 interconnection requests a year. 
 
 
It was a lot to process.  So much so that we needed to reform 
the process, and, in 2022, the Federal regulator, FERC, approved those 
changes to our process, and we implemented them effective summer of 
2023.  I’m happy to report that we’re processing now massive amounts of 
generator interconnection requests.  We’ll get through--  We’ve already 
processed upwards of 38,000 megawatts that have received all the approvals 
in hand.  We’re now in the process of moving up to another 30 megawatts 
this year, and then we’ll process more as we get through the queue.  The 
queue, as it stands today, is approximately 226,000 megawatts -- or 226 
 
 
 
34 
gigawatts.  And, then, by the middle of next year, we hope to get through 
another 30,000 megawatts. 
 
 
Before I conclude--  And, you have some written testimony with 
helpful graphics and statistics.  At the end of the day, we provide facts; we 
are not a policy-setting organization.  We want to maintain a reliable grid; 
we want it to be competitive; and we want economically efficient outcomes, 
so your customers could afford their ultimate utilities.  But, with respect to 
affordability, there are some issues that are managed by policymakers, 
including utility regulators and State lawmakers like yourselves.  And, these 
are just two important points: 
 
 
Number 1, to minimize rate impacts, we would respectfully 
request avoiding any policies that are designed to push resources off the 
system before we have an equal and equivalent amount of replacement 
resources -- in this case, New Jersey, its entirely renewable and clean 
resources -- until we have an equal amount of those resources to replace the 
departing generation. 
 
 
And, Number 2, analyze local challenges within your state to 
figure out how we could deploy both generation and transmission 
infrastructure onto the grid more quickly.  We’ve heard throughout our 
footprint the challenges of getting local permitting to develop new 
resources, whether it be a natural gas-fired facility or solar or ray, as well as 
the development of transmission lines.  It’s very difficult in this day and age 
to build a new high-voltage transmission line.  Nobody wants such 
infrastructure in their backyard, and we understand that.  But, at the end of 
the day, if you can’t build through the forests; and, you can’t build through 
the suburbs; and, you can’t build through the wetlands; and, you can’t build 
 
 
 
35 
through the farmlands; there’s no place to host new transmission lines.  
And, with the large load growth that we’re expecting -- whether it be data 
centers, AI, building electrification, EVs -- that will be a challenge. 
 
 
Thank you again for the invitation, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
We’re happy to answer any questions. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Jason, and I’m 
very mindful as this Committee moves forward that we look towards 
generating what we utilize. 
 
 
I see an increased demand on what we need to do, and 
diversifying that portfolio is extremely important to me so that we have a 
sustainable generation and it’s not just patting ourselves on the back. 
 
 
Do any Committee members have any questions? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I do. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Yes, Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  So, thank you. 
 
 
What you do is very crucial, and it’s very important that you’re 
here, because everything starts at what you guys do. 
 
 
So, there’s two things that you said that I would like to shed 
some light on and make sure that everybody in the room understands.  One 
of the--  Close to the last thing you said was, “Stop shutting down plants.”  
Effectively.  Take the niceties out of it.  Stop shutting down plants until we 
have an equal generator for the plant that you’re shutting down. 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  That’s correct. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  And, then, the other thing 
that you said that’s very crucial is -- and, correct me if I’m wrong here -- you 
 
 
 
36 
expressed, if I’m not mistaken, a 10-fold increase in the bulk generation rate 
very recently. 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Nearly a 10-fold in the capacity rate. 
 
 
So, the capacity payment goes to a generator today to ensure 
that they’re available to supply at some point in the future. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  So, safe to say that that 
capacity rate, that bulk capacity rate that you mentioned, is the primary 
driver of raising the rates that you pay your house.  Am I right? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  So, let me be clear.  The auction results that 
went up to $270 in New Jersey through our recent auction in July, those 
rates -- which will migrate to a utility bill at some point in the future, no 
earlier than June 1 of 2025 -- we’ll have to go through a rate case; it’ll go 
through the BPU.  But, it’s a fraction of a fraction of the generation line on 
the utility bill. 
 
 
So, customers, let me be clear, will not see an increase 10-fold 
come next year. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I get that.  But, is it safe to 
say that, because of that 10-fold increase, we are going to see continued rate 
increases over the next two or three years? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  There will be an upward rate impact. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  OK, so, this is just the 
beginning of the hell that we’re going through? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Depending on auction results in the future, 
they could go up; they could go down.  We’re hopeful that more resources 
view this very high $270 rate as a price signal and a signal we need to 
provide more generation supply into the auction. 
 
 
 
37 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  So, is it safe to say, Sir, that if 
we do nothing, we are going to pay the price soon? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  If the State does nothing, that would be fair to 
say. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Anybody else have any 
questions? 
 
 
Yes, Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Jason, thank you.  Great to have 
you here today. 
 
 
Yes, to put numbers to that, Chris, $2.2 billion to $14.7 billion, 
just under $29 per megawatt, to just under $270 per megawatt as Jason just 
shared with us. 
 
 
And, so, yes, we’ve got to do something.  And, that’s what 
perplexes me, that we had this conversation about wanting to do something.  
And, wind is one of those options.  We look at our sustainable options that 
we can -- that are in the queue. 
 
 
And, so, my question really focuses on that, on these -- on that 
list.  And, thank you; in your report you list some of the connections that 
you’ve made.  But, then we also discuss in the data that I had -- that I was 
thankful to hear you quoted -- that it was down to 226 gigawatts that were 
still in the queue; I had it 286.  So, I was thankful to see that we’ve made 
some movement on that.  Most of which are solar and/or storage projects, 
correct? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  For our footprint, almost entirely solar paired 
with storage and some wind, that’s the footprint-wide. 
 
 
 
38 
 
 
New Jersey wide, it’s more than three-quarters wind-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Wind-- 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  --the balance, the remaining quarter, is about--  
It’s solar and storage. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Yes, absolutely. 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Twenty -- about 20 gigawatts in the queue. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Right now, due to that backlog, 
you’ve shut down until 2026 any new applications.  Am I correct? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  We’re in the midst of processing this remaining 
226 gigawatts.  Applications are still being filed and reviewed.  They won’t 
be acted on before 2026. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  OK; all right. 
 
 
You actually answered my questions.  You’ve added additional 
focus to that, to work on those processes on those lines. 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  We’re expediting the queue.  As I mentioned, 
we’re on track to get through another 26 gigawatts by December of this 
year.  Another 30 gigawatts by the middle of next year, with the intent by 
2026, the queue is effectively processing the applications as they’re 
received. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Can you also speak to those who 
then opt-out while they’re waiting; what that process looks like; and what 
the percentages or general number of those who then pull their 
applications? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Yes, not every applicant actually graduates the 
queue.  Prior to the reforms being sent, we saw a fair number of potential 
generators not actually meeting our milestones as they progressed through 
 
 
 
39 
the queue.  So, it could be concerns with respect to financing; with respect 
to supply chains; inability to obtain local permits.  So, there’s a number of 
reasons for why they would drop out. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Mr. Chairman, if I may, let me just 
rewind-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Yes-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  --rewind one second to Chris’ 
question. 
 
 
So, what we’re experiencing right now was based on the 
previous auction from--  What would have been some of the impact from 
the previous auction? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  So, the queue is forward looking.  These are 
resources that want to connect to the system.  The auction that we had is 
either existing resources -- supply resources, generator, solar, steam, nuclear 
-- or plants that are not online yet but can commit to being online when the 
(indiscernible) takes effect June 1.  So, they don’t have to be operational 
today, they could have bid into the capacity market.  But, by June 1 of next 
year, they need to be ready to contribute. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  It’s a very complex issue. 
 
 
MS. STANEK:  It is. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  I appreciate you being here today. 
 
 
But, yes, certainly, it’s something that we all have to be aware 
of.  We’re certainly--  It certainly has raised our temperature in the southern 
districts right now.  It’s something that we ought to be aware of moving 
forward. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
40 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Assemblyman. 
 
 
Assemblyman Kanitra. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Chairman, first of all, I have 
another chance just to commend you for holding this hearing today.  I 
mean, we have different ways of how we’re looking at the issue and 
everything, but the experts that we have, I think, are really valuable, 
because, at the end of the day, the average resident in New Jersey just cares 
about what they’re paying on their bill, for the most part. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  That is correct. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Kudos to my colleague -- my 
distinguished colleague -- who got into what I was going to talk about 
probably a little bit more eloquently than I will, but we’re probably both 
champing at the bit. 
 
 
And, kudos to you for being here today, because you’re in the 
unenviable position of having to talk about rate increases that you don’t 
have any say over.  You’re just directing the mix of electrons and you have 
to deal with all the State regulations and all the bureaucratic craziness that 
goes into this.  And, I appreciate that. 
 
 
And, while my colleague started to dig in on your comment, 
which I believe was that you’re essentially asking the State to please don’t 
pull resources off the system currently until we have enough energy.  I want 
to dig into it more because, before that, you also went in and you said that 
you already had resources retire.  And, I don’t think the issue is that 
complex of an issue in general; I think it’s pretty simple.  I’m a simple guy, I 
like to get how approachable things are for the regular person out there. 
 
 
 
41 
 
 
“Resources retiring” means that fossil fuel plants have been 
shut down, correct? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  That’s fair to say. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  How many fossil fuel plants do 
you think have been shut down in what period of years, recently? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Well, in the past six years we’ve lost almost 
2,900 megawatts of resources, and they were replaced with about 1,300 
megawatts of resources.  So-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  So, a 1,600 deficient, right?  I 
won’t speak for you. 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Correct.  I think that’s the math. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  That’s pretty--  It wasn’t my 
strongest subject, but the quick math on that-- 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Six hundred, yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  And, as you talked about, we 
have increasing demand with all our technological advances and everything 
that are going on, but it’s not, “Please, State, stop -- don’t turn off any 
resources.”  We’ve already done that.  We all--  The reason that we’re facing 
these rate increases is--  And, let me just ask you, (indiscernible).  If those 
resources were still on, would our rates be where they’re at today? 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Additional resources, additional supply, into 
the market would have a depressing effect on prices. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  So, that’s the answer.  I mean, 
we’re going to have the whole hearing, a ton of people are going to talk 
about it, we’re going to go back and forth ideologically about how 
 
 
 
42 
everybody feels.  If we had the resources that got shut down because of the 
State’s mandates online today, everybody in the State would have lower-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  All right-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  --utility prices. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Assemblyman, one of the 
things we need to be mindful of is PJM is not just the controller for the 
State of New Jersey.  That loss is through a 12-13 state-- 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Thirteen state-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Right, 13 states.  So, it is not -
- to pull the politics-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Not (indiscernible), of course, 
Chairman-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  --that has been going on and 
to control the room.  It is not just New Jersey. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Of course; right. 
 
 
Thanks. 
 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
And, one of the things that--  I appreciate your offer, and I will 
expand it out to the Committee afterwards and we will orchestrate it -- is a 
tour of your facility.  I believe it’s about an hour away in Valley Forge-- 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  That is right. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  --so that the members can see 
the operation of the -- your facility. 
 
 
 
43 
 
 
MR. STANEK:  Thank you; we look forward to having you 
visit. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  So, calling up next, for 
everyone, I’m going to call up our utilities. 
 
 
I am going to ask all four of them to come up, and we’ll go kind 
of in order:  Atlantic City Electric, Jersey Central Power & Light, Rockland 
Electric, and PSE&G. 
 
 
Good morning, everyone, and you heard multiple testimonies, 
and we’re going to ask you guys if you could please kind of discuss a little 
bit about your utility area.  If you can just help out the dais up here, we 
have four companies that are out there, if you can just kind of give us -- 
although I know -- the parameters of your geographical area before you get 
into your testimony. 
 
 
I’ll let you guys fight, see who wants to go first.  It doesn’t 
matter to me. 
P H I L L I P   V A V A L A :  Good morning; I am Phillip Vavala from 
Atlantic City Electric. 
 
 
I am the Regional President.  I will read off my comments, if 
you’d like. 
 
 
So, we are responsible for delivering electricity to South Jersey, 
everything from Cape May to Atlantic City to the Glassboro area and 
beyond.  I am serving north of 500,000 customers in South Jersey, and 
we’re proud to do so each and every day. 
 
 
Chairman DeAngelo, thank you very much for having this 
hearing.  And, the members of the Telecommunications and Utilities 
 
 
 
44 
Commission (sic) today, thank you for being here, and I appreciate your 
questions. 
 
 
I’d like to have a few prepared comments around the influx in 
high customer bills that we’ve seen, and then our efforts to communicate 
with customers about the energy increases, the resources available to help 
lower costs and assist customers with bill payments.  Because, as you all 
know, that we are extremely interested in our customers; interested in how 
they’re dealing with the rising prices, and, obviously, we want to 
demonstrate that we are empathetic as a utility in that regard. 
 
 
We will note that each customer’s bill is unique.  It can vary 
from energy use to the supplier, including the--  As we talked about already 
today, in terms of clean-energy solutions that are part of that bill, our goal 
at Atlantic City Electric is to make sure that we’re ensuring customers are 
well informed about the factors affecting their bill so they can better 
understand their rates and consider all potential ways to save energy and 
save money.  We provide extensive information regarding energy-efficiency 
and assistance programs, and, while we communicate to the customers 
about impacts, we heard our customers’ feedback that we certainly need to 
do more, and have begun taking steps this summer through small and other 
social media challenges to share bill impact information. 
 
 
We continue to direct our customer communications to our 
customers, explaining that the transition from summer to winter rates, 
customers may experience this fall a decrease in their rates and to help them 
understand that.  We did provide an email on Monday this week to our 
customers, and, as of the writing of my testimony, we had nearly100,000 
 
 
 
45 
customers who actually opened that email and gained information through 
other channels. 
 
 
I would like to take a moment to talk a little bit about this 
summer and what we experienced.  We saw the summer heat combine with 
changes in rates, as we’ve already discussed today.  The cost of energy has 
caused fluctuations in customers’ bills.  We experienced the second-hottest 
June on record, a nearly 8% temperature increase from June 2023 to June 
2024 of this year.  July was our seventh hottest month on record, and as a 
result, the company saw residential usage, on average, to increase 20% over 
the same period from last year.  It’s important to note the increase in usage 
over year over year. 
 
 
Our studies have indicated that New Jersey residents continue 
to use energy more than ever before.  We’ve talked about that quite a bit 
here today, and some of the projections related to that.  That makes 
equipment work harder; that causes an increase in energy demand; and, 
coupled with inflation and extreme weather, contributing factors are 
affecting energy bills for customers.  On average, customers experienced an 
additional 20% bill increase compared to the previous summer due to those 
factors as I’ve already walked through. 
 
 
A little bit about what we want to talk about today is the 
supply rate, as we’ve mentioned already.  That’s the cost of the electricity 
that a customer uses.  That rate changes based on the purchase cost of 
electricity, and I will note it is a passed-through cost.  Customers 
experiencing the rate increase related to that, compared to the July 2023 -- 
the same period -- is directly due to the parts of the energy auction that 
we’ve already talked about.  I will note, though, that customers can shop for 
 
 
 
46 
third-party energy providers to provide energy resources for the portion of 
the bill related to supply, and that is an option for customers to do, 
obviously, to continue to try to look at more affordable options for the 
energy purchase. 
 
 
The distribution rate, which increased by 5%, allowed the 
customers -- allowed the company, sorry -- to continue investing in 
reliability and modernization utility upgrades to better serve customers.  
Distribution rates also serve to support storm damage; help us invest in 
making the system more resilient against future storms; and our customers 
are receiving value through those investments to enhancement local energy 
grid, resulting in customers experiencing lowest frequency of electric outages 
ever in 2023, while supporting a 45% overall decrease over the past 10 
years. 
 
 
We understand that no one wants to see high electricity bills, 
and that has a significant impact on our customers.  That’s why we work to 
empower customers to better manage the energy use, have programs 
supporting that, and help those who are struggling to meet their energy 
needs for facing financial hardship.  Budget billing averages a customers’ 
annual energy costs and creates a balanced and predictable monthly bill -- 
and, I stress predictable.  Now customers know what to expect each month 
in their bill, and avoid seasonal peaks while getting a view of their actual 
energy usage. 
 
 
And, I will note before this we did see an increase in the 
number of customers who didn’t enroll in our budget billing programs over 
this period of the past summer, demonstrating to me that our messages for 
 
 
 
47 
trying to communicate with customers are working and that they’re availing 
themselves of the assistance that can be deployed there. 
 
 
I will also note that our recently deployed and activated smart 
meters enable tools to help customers save money and energy.  Let me 
emphasize that Atlantic City Electric has found that there is no correlation 
to higher energy bills, and that the installation of a new smart meter -- in 
fact, the tools enabled to be updated, from an updated smart meter -- can 
help customers better monitor their usage; obtain things like high-bill alerts; 
have better insights into their more detailed energy-use information.  The 
smart meters that, like the high-usage alerts that I’ve already mentioned, 
notify customers when their usage goes beyond a customer-set level, 
allowing customers to better predict bills; adjust energy uses, which 
customize energy-saving tips; and, ultimately, keep costs down. 
 
 
Atlantic City Electric works closely with our community and 
our community partners to connect customers with State and Federal 
energy-assistance grants.  In 2023, the company helped more than 37,000 
customers secure $51 million in energy assistance and help customers pay 
their energy bills with no requirement to pay that back.  We’ve launched an 
Assistance Finder Tool, which helps customers find personalized program 
information for financial assistance, bill management, energy efficiency, and 
we’re working with community partners to have a greater impact, again, 
because we understand no one wants to see high-rising electricity costs and 
we want to make sure that we’re availing and connecting customers with the 
assistance that is available. 
 
 
We provide a quick home-energy checkup; appliance recycling; 
HVAC and Energy Star recycling programs.  Our marketplace offers 
 
 
 
48 
discounted energy-saving products, such as programmable thermostats to 
help customers continue to monitor and control their energy usage.  We’ve 
recently dedicated a portion of our website to educating our customers and 
addressing their concerns, and we ask our customers to visit 
AtlanticCityElectric.com/billsupport, where they can find additional 
information.  And, certainly, they can call us by calling our number at 800-
642-3780. 
 
 
In conclusion, Atlantic City Electric -- and, I personally 
understand and hear our customers’ concerns -- we are here to partner for 
their customers to help them better understand their bill, the tools that are 
available, and how they can take control of their energy usage; save money 
and energy; and connect with energy assistance if needed. 
 
 
Thank you for the opportunity today, and I will now take any 
questions. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
And, we’ll do questions after all four testimonies are concluded. 
 
 
So, next up, Jersey Central. 
K I E R A N   T I N T L E:  Good morning, Chairman, members of the 
Committee. 
 
 
My name is Kieran Tintle; I serve as Senior Advisor, 
Government Affairs, for Jersey Central Power & Light. 
 
 
I am joined today by Pat Mullin, our incoming Vice President 
of Operations. 
 
 
As the Chair requested, Jersey Central Power & Light has our 
service territory in the northwestern portion of the state and -- so long as 
 
 
 
49 
you believe in it -- the eastern central New Jersey portion of the state, 
Monmouth and Ocean County. 
 
 
Thank you; I’ll turn it over to Pat. 
P A T R I C I A   M U L L I N:  Chairman DeAngelo, members of the 
Committee, good morning, and thank you for the opportunity to testify 
today regarding high energy usage during the summer months of this year. 
 
 
I am Pat Mullin, Incoming Vice President of Operations for 
Jersey Central Power & Light.  I started my career in First Energy here in 
New Jersey, and I am excited to be back. 
 
 
As a longtime resident of Toms River, I am also honored to 
testify today before one of my legislators, Assemblyman Kanitra -- excuse 
me. 
 
 
Primary drivers of high electric bills during 2024 summer 
months were increased electric consumption due to the summer heat wave, 
higher electric supply costs, and the settlement of changes to JCP&L’s 
distribution rates.  June and July 2024 were among the hottest months of 
the record for New Jersey, leading to the highest rise in residential energy 
consumption in the last five years.  Total residential energy use for the 
months of June and July increased by approximately 17% from an average 
of more than 880 million megawatt hours in 2019, to more than one billion 
megawatt hours in 2024. 
 
 
In addition, JCP&L’s customers saw two rate increases impact 
their bills, beginning in June 2024.  The first was a result of the settlement 
reached in our company’s 2023 base rate filing -- its first since 2020.  The 
filing recovers our company’s costs for the infrastructure and operations 
investments to deliver electricity to homes and businesses in our service 
 
 
 
50 
areas.  The settlement resulted in an overall monthly increase of 3.6% of a 
typical residential customer.  This charge helps to support infrastructure 
investments, outage response, and grid reliability. 
 
 
JCP&L is committed to continuing this type of grid investment, 
because it’s vital for both the State’s economic growth and energy reliability 
for our customers.  Grid upgrades improve resiliency; allow for quicker 
restoration; and fewer power outages.  Infrastructure investments create 
jobs; stimulate our local economies; and attract businesses that depend on 
reliable power.  A modern, resilient grid also positions New Jersey as a 
prime destination for investments in tech, clean energy, and other 
emergency and tech industries. 
 
 
The second increase experienced by our customers beginning in 
June was related to a basic generation service supply charge, which covers 
the cost of electricity itself from the BGS electricity suppliers.  The BGS 
supply charge is collected by the utility, but passed through the electricity 
supplier without a markup.  On average, the supply charge represents 
approximately 57% the total monthly bill for a typical residential customer.  
The cost increase from BGS electricity suppliers resulted in a typical 
residential customer seeing 8.6% increase in their monthly bills, starting in 
June.  This was an increase realized by JCP&L residential customers who do 
not shop for electric supply. 
 
 
JCP&L understands the economic realities that our customers 
face, and we encourage them to play an active role in managing their home 
energy usage through our Home Energy Analyzer.  This tool, available to 
customers through individual portals on our website, help them to better 
understand and compare how much energy their home and individual 
 
 
 
51 
appliances consume.  Additionally, we seek to help our customers who are 
facing financial hardships.  To date, in 2024, in partnership with the State 
of New Jersey, we help to connect approximately 68,500 customers with 
more than $25 million in assistance through the programs such as Universal 
Service Fund and LIHEAP. 
 
 
Thank you for your time today, and we look forward to your 
questions. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Patricia. 
 
 
Can I get PSE&G? 
 
 
And, just make sure that little red light is on -- there you go. 
D A V I D   L.   J O H N S O N:  Good afternoon, Chairman DeAngelo. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Morning.  Or, good afternoon, 
yes; it’s not morning anymore. 
 
 
Good afternoon. 
 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  That’s exactly right. 
 
 
And, other distinguished members of this Assembly Utilities 
Committee. 
 
 
My name is David Johnson; I serve as the Vice President of 
Customer Care and Chief Operating Officer for Public Service Electric & 
Gas.  In my current role, I am responsible for leading, planning, and 
managing PSE&G’s efforts to deliver seamless, efficient, and a positive 
customer experience for all of our customers. 
 
 
And, I have to tell you, it’s deeply rooted in our customer-
centric culture that we have. 
 
 
On behalf of PSE&G, I am here before you as a part of our 
fundamental responsibility to serve our 2.4 million electric customers, and 
 
 
 
52 
our 1.9 million gas customers, to serve as a good steward of all of our 
customers and our electric and gas distribution system. 
 
 
One of the things that we focus on consistently is managing our 
costs prudently.  We take these responsibilities extremely seriously, and we 
take a lot of pride in the fact that we provide safe, reliable gas and electric 
distribution at economic rates. 
 
 
Mr. Chairman, you asked where our service territory spans.  
Our service territory spans from the north, central, and southern parts of 
New Jersey.  So, we are across the State of New Jersey, and we’re very 
proud to serve. 
 
 
I’d like to start some of my other comments by saying New 
Jersey is doing well.  And, what I mean by that is we submitted some 
reading materials, and I’d ask you to reference slide two.  In those materials 
that we submitted and advanced, it shows that we’ve had many years of low 
and affordable rates.  On slide two, Wells Fargo submitted some recent 
information that shows that New Jersey’s rate increase of 2.8% is lower 
than the national average over the same time frame, especially when you 
compare it to those states in the Midwest and along the East Coast.  Our 
rates have even increased lower than the rate of inflation, which we know 
the CPI index of the last couple of years has been around 4%.  
 
 
And, I have to tell you, this doesn’t happen by chance, 
Assembly members.  It happens because of the support and some of the 
sound decisions that you’ve made; some of the sound decisions that the 
BPU has participated in and driven; as well as the fact that at PSE&G, we 
are committed and focused on continuously driving our costs down. 
 
 
 
53 
 
 
In addition to that, as you’ve heard others mention, there’s a 
difference between an energy rate and a customer’s bill.  And, customers do 
focus on their bills.  And, so, at PSE&G, we are extremely focused on 
keeping our bills affordable.  We’re also laser-focused on providing 
exceptional service, which I’m extremely excited about, while keeping our 
operational and maintenance costs down.  As a matter of fact, those two 
work hand in hand.  Simply put, keeping our customers front and center, 
doing things the right way the first time, also enables our ability to 
maintain efficient operations. 
 
 
Our focus on keeping our costs down shows up in a couple 
places I would call to your attention.  Affordability and competitiveness to 
our peers.  And, I would ask you to reference slide three of the previously 
submitted information.  One point that I’d like to make note of is PSE&G’s 
combined bills are 3% of New Jersey’s median income -- which we are 
extremely proud of -- and it should look at over the last 14 to 15 years, that 
number continues to decrease.  When you look at the second line on that 
chart, under 2% of the median income of our low-income customers -- and, 
I’m referring to those who take advantage of our payment-assistance 
programs offered here in the state -- it’s extremely small there as well, and 
we’re proud of that, and you can see we’re at one of the lowest levels over 
the past 15 years. 
 
 
We’re also very proud that we have some of the lowest gas bills 
in the region, and our electric bills are below the regional average -- 
extremely proud of that.  Additionally, to help keep our bills affordable to 
all of our customers, our employees take a lot of pride in being heavily 
engaged in the communities that we serve.  To give you an example, we’ve 
 
 
 
54 
partnered with the BPU on many occasions to go to the communities where 
our customers are at to host energy-efficiency seminars, payment-assistance 
outreach days, and volunteer events. 
 
 
I’d like to share with you some statistics.  In 2023, in our 
territory -- in PSE&G’s territory -- 212,000 customers received to the tune 
of $218 million of payment assistance.  And, that’s due to all the hard work 
that our employees put in to connect our customers to resources.  Year to 
date in 2024, 200,000 customers have received over $160 million of 
payment assistance, and the year is not over and will continue to push hard. 
 
 
At PSE&G, we rigorously continue to manage our costs for our 
operation and maintenance, while continuing to perform at a high level in 
both operations and customer satisfaction.  And, at the same time, as 
you’ve heard a couple other members state before, we meet our customers 
where they’re at.  We consider that to be extremely important. 
 
 
You’ve heard me talk about “affordable,” but not only are we 
affordable, we are very reliable.  And, we take this seriously.  It’s extremely 
important to us that we provide safe, reliable, and affordable service.  We 
uphold our responsibility by following some simple principles.  Number 1:  
Making prudent investments in our infrastructure; being able to be 
responsive to our continued growing customer demand.  Second one:  
Making sure that we’re executing on all programs that our customers 
request of us.  And, then, third one is continuously reinforcing our 
distribution systems -- hardening and strengthening our base. 
 
 
As you’re all aware, our state has experienced some very 
momentous situations.  The blackout of 2003; Superstorm Sandy; and, 
some most recent unpredictable weather.  All of this illustrates the need for 
 
 
 
55 
our continued investment in reliability, resilience, so that we’re ready for 
any future events that may come up.  We continue at PSE&G to make 
sound investments to meet this ongoing challenge, and we’ll continue to 
focus on that, and to be a catalyst of economic development in the State of 
New Jersey. 
 
 
Over the last several years we’ve created thousands of well-
paying jobs directly and indirectly through our vendors.  In 2023, we spent 
$2.6 billion in the State of New Jersey, and $1.1 billion in diversity spend.  
And, our Clean Energy Jobs Program has provided over 2,500 jobs in our 
most vulnerable communities, and those communities that, really, are 
underserved.  We also at PSE&G continue to provide safe, reliable, and 
affordable services, and we acknowledge that there’s a rigorous process that 
we have in our State that’s led by the BPU.  And, some of those 
components are making sure that there’s viability in each utility filing; 
validating the different roles that each utility partakes in the process; 
making sure that the process is transparent and robust, which is really 
important; and making sure that the overall process undergoes a prudency 
review.  
 
 
And, as I begin to wrap up here, I would be remiss if I didn’t 
call out our focus and how our customers recognize us for the customer 
service that we provide.  We have been consistently in the top quartile for 
electric reliability, and the top quartile for customer satisfaction for both 
electric and gas, while maintaining lower ONM costs.  A couple of the 
recognitions that our customers have given us recently, we received the 
“Reliability One” award for outstanding metropolitan service area reliability 
for 22 consecutive years -- which we are extremely proud of; the men and 
 
 
 
56 
women of our company are extremely proud of that.  Second thing, from a 
customer satisfaction perspective, you’ve all heard of JD Power -- in 2022, 
we were first for both electric and gas residential in the East Large segment.  
In 2023, we were in the top spot for both JD Power Electric residential and 
gas residential. 
 
 
So, in conclusion, on behalf of the 12,500 men and women at 
PSE&G -- and our customers -- I want to thank you for the attention on 
this matter today.  We appreciate that all the parties here work so hard for 
New Jersey so that we can remain economically competitive while providing 
comparatively low rates paired with, as I mentioned earlier, exceptional 
service. 
 
 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Joe. 
J O S E P H   C H E C K L E Y:  Good afternoon. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Afternoon, Joe. 
 
 
MR. CHECKLEY:  My name is Joseph Checkley, President and 
Business Manager of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 
Local 94. 
 
 
I represent 4,000 members throughout the State of New Jersey.  
Of those 4,000 members, 3,300 are in all lines of business at PSE&G.  Six 
hundred of those 3,300 work at the Salem Hope Creek nuclear reactors.  
Another 600 do line clearance and tree-trimming throughout the state.  The 
remaining membership works at the fossil and co-gen plants – six fossil and 
co-gen plants plants -- operating in the State of New Jersey. 
 
 
 
57 
 
 
On behalf of Local 94’s membership, I am here to discuss the 
important contributions that Public Service Electric & Gas makes to the 
state, regional, and economy, and its efforts to maintain the reliable and 
resilient system sensitive to affordable concerns. 
 
 
Over the past 10 years since Superstorm Sandy, PSE&G has 
made significant, prudent capital investments to upgrade, strengthen, and 
modernize the State’s electric infrastructure.  Local 94 members have 
played a key role in that infrastructure upgrade.  Large-scale, long-term 
infrastructure-modernization programs, like the ones PSE&G has 
undertaken, drive the enormous number of benefits that touch almost every 
New Jerseyan.  Most residents want electric and gas service available when 
they need it, and, so does PSE&G. 
 
 
PSE&G prides itself on providing safe and reliable service and 
being responsive to the customer needs.  In addition to enhancing reliability 
for customers, those investments have been a win-win, with improvements 
for crucial infrastructure strengthening to the system; reducing carbon 
emissions; and creating good-paying middle-class jobs. 
 
 
Those investments have extended benefits to the communities 
they serve, drawing on a specialized pool of contractors workforce they 
engage, all guided with the same principle:  safe; proper; and reliable service.  
While making these investments, PSE&G has maintained affordability a 
top priority. 
 
 
PSE&G has continually maintained its history of providing 
award-winning, reliable service due in no small part to the Local 94 
members.  Investments of these type PSE&G makes in the New Jersey 
energy infrastructure make our state a better place to live and work and also 
 
 
 
58 
raise our families.  These investments have helped clean the air and boost 
our state’s economy and ensure high-quality jobs, as well as making 
electrical service for our homes and businesses safe, more reliable, and more 
resilient. 
 
 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Joe. 
 
 
And, last but not least, at the top of the state -- I mean the very 
top -- Rockland Electric. 
M I C H E L E   O ’ C O N N E L L:  Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
 
 
Good afternoon. 
 
 
My name is Michele O’Connell, President and CEO of 
Rockland Electric Company.  And, I am pleased to testify today before the 
Assembly Telecommunications and Utilities Committee. 
 
 
Rockland Electric provides electric service to approximately 
75,000 customers in parts of Bergen, Passaic, and Sussex County.  Together 
with Orange and Rockland Utilities, we contribute to the local economy by 
supporting 3,500 jobs, both direct and indirect, with Rockland Electric 
alone providing $16 million in contracts to small businesses and minority 
and women-owned businesses.  Also contributing $26 million in local and 
State tax revenues. 
 
 
Our mission, like others, is to deliver energy that is safe, 
reliable, and sustainable while actively engaging with our customers to 
understand their needs. 
 
 
We have and continue to invest in the grid to maintain 
reliability and enhance resiliency.  This includes $19.8 million in storm-
hardening and selective undergrounding projects in the past two years, and 
 
 
 
59 
believe that these investments such as these are integral to the reliable and 
resiliency of the grid. 
 
 
We recognize that this summer’s electric bills were higher than 
typical -- especially compared to that of last year’s relatively mild summer.  
And, that can pose challenges for our customers.  This summer was the 
third-hottest summer on record since 1996, and, as a result, we saw 
customer usage increase approximately 15% in response to that heat and 
humidity.  Other contributing factors included increased cost for supply and 
transmission.  We actively work to support our customers, and offer a range 
of programs that can provide meaningful discounts and more flexible 
payment programs.  These include such things as deferred payment 
programs and agreements; payment extensions; monthly discounts for low-
income customers through the Universal Services Funds.  We collaborate 
with our customers to facilitate the connection and receipt of public 
assistance as well as providing level payment plans, which can really reduce 
bill volatility. 
 
 
In addition to these initiatives, we encourage our customers to 
manage their energy use as the most effective means of controlling cost.  
With the help of smart meters, customers have access to detailed daily 
usage information, and customers can receive high-bill alerts and tips on 
how to avoid them.  The company also provides customers with weekly 
reports summarizing their utility usage.  These measures are supplemented 
by energy-saving tips and incentives for making energy-efficiency upgrades 
to homes and businesses, which can be accessed through our website. 
 
 
In conclusion, Rockland Electric Company remains steadfast in 
our commitment to our customers, ensuring that we provide safe and 
 
 
 
60 
reliable electricity while managing the challenges posed by our dynamic 
energy market. 
 
 
Thank you for the time today, and we look forward to your 
questions. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Well, thank you. 
 
 
And, to all four electric companies, I appreciate your time and 
expertise in testifying today. 
 
 
Now, I am going to ask anybody on the dais if they have any 
questions.  And, if you could -- on both sides -- just not get into 
hypotheticals.  Just ask specific questions through the provider.  And, if you 
can just say which provider you have a question to. 
 
 
Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  I feel like that was directed at 
me. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Thank you; thank you.  I will 
try to be brief. 
 
 
First off, PSE&G -- did you just recently announce a 5% 
decrease in your rates? 
 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Recently, we did announce a rate decrease, 
due to the BGS’-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Effective yesterday, I think. 
 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Correct. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Good timing. 
 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Yes, it is. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
 
61 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  To Atlantic City--  Listen, I 
don’t represent any municipalities that have Atlantic City Electric, but I will 
tell you, I’ve gotten a lot of correspondence on it.  And, I will admit I have a 
relative who lives in Winslow who does go there. 
 
 
My question to you--  And, we heard from the BPU on 
programs that are targeting low income, which I think is great, but, like 
some of the others, I’m very concerned about seniors with fixed-income -- 
retirees, including police and fire who haven’t seen a cost of living 
adjustment in over a decade -- how this is impacting those types of folks. 
 
 
My understanding of the major three components are the BGS 
-- the Basic Generation Service -- distribution component, and SBC -- which 
is the Societal Benefits Charge.  Is that correct? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  Yes, that’s correct. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  OK. 
 
 
When I look at the BGS for all four utilities, they’re roughly 
the same.  They’re roughly between 9 and 10 cents per kilowatt hours.  
Does that sound about right? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  That sounds correct, yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Distribution, however, I’m 
seeing a big difference in what I think explains why, frankly, my brother 
who is complaining about his bill is somewhat justified.  My bill -- I have 
JCP&L -- my bill went up $100 from last year to this year, from $300 to 
roughly $400, which was a little bit of sticker shock.  His went up to $800, 
and, we have roughly the same house. 
 
 
When I look at the distribution component, PSE&G from 
October to May was 3.55; JCP&L was 3.03.  From October to May the 
 
 
 
62 
third, Atlantic City was 7.47.  I look at June to September -- JCP&L 
actually went down 2.01.  Atlantic City went up to 8.2.  Four times.  What-
-  What’s the reason behind that? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  I think your bill -- any customer’s bill -- is 
unique, and I think there’s a complex set of pieces that fall in it.  We have 
already talked about the supply rate; we’ve talked about the distribution 
rate; we’ve talked about usage. 
 
 
One thing I think that is, is very apparent to us based on just, if 
you look at the side-by-side of utilities within the State of New Jersey -- 
specifically around cost per customer -- if you look at Atlantic City Electric’s 
territory as compared to my peers, the number of customers in the 
denominator, so to speak, for being able to socialize the total cost of 
operations, those type of things across the customer base, is considerably 
different than, say, to the north or far north. 
 
 
So, from that standpoint, the overall cost-per-customer, I think 
for Atlantic City Electric, tends to be higher, just simply by virtue of the 
fact of our geography, our territory, and by the number of customers that 
are within the area. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Yes, but I guess--  Mr. 
Chairman, if I could-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Yes, please do. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  I guess where I’m struggling 
here is, what we’ve been hearing is, “Hey, there’s a hot -- a much hotter 
summer, much more usage.”  JCP&L had a 16% increase, according to the 
numbers I have in front of me.  Atlantic City had a 13% increase.  Now, the 
 
 
 
63 
year before, you had a 7% drop; they had a 10% drop, according to the 
numbers I have in front of me. 
 
 
So, your drop was at -- or, your increase, I should say -- was 
actually a little less than JCP&L.  And, I’m not comparing individual bills 
here, I’m comparing actual numbers.  JCP&L’s distribution component was 
2.01; yours is 8.2.  That’s the problem I’m having.  Why is yours 8.2 to 
distribution when theirs is one-fourth of the price? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  With all due respect, Sir, I would have to see 
the numbers myself to understand the nuance that’s there. 
 
 
Again, what I spoke to was our investment in our system; our 
cost related to energy supply; the capacity charge that’s part of that as well; 
and, then, beyond that, the usage for the customer itself.  Every identified 
complaint that we’ve had from a customer specific to their bill, we’ve done a 
full vetting process related to that, looked at the customer’s consumption, 
looked at the rates, and have worked with each customer to understand 
what the nuance is related to that. 
 
 
So, to understand that subtlety between what you’re seeing for 
JCP&L and Atlantic Electric, I’d need to see that more to understand, Sir. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  But -- last question, Chair. 
 
 
Well, I mean--  I mean, it’s not subtle; it’s a big difference.  It’s 
four times. 
 
 
But, the SBC -- the Societal Benefits Charge -- seem kind of 
concerned.  PS--  Excuse me.  Rockland, .58; PSE&G, .61; JCP&L .68; 
Atlantic City, 1.05.  Why is the Societal Benefits Charge so much higher for 
Atlantic City versus relatively the same rates for the other three? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  Yes, I don’t have an answer today, Sir, on that. 
 
 
 
64 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  OK; thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  So, if I can ask this, Atlantic 
City Electric, I mean, (indiscernible), but if you can please get back to the 
Assemblyman and send it through the Chair-- 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  Absolutely-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  --I’ll make sure all the 
Committee members get that. 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  Absolutely. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Thank you, Chair; I appreciate 
that. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  If I may ask a question. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Hold on one second. 
 
 
Any members have a question? 
 
 
Yes, Assemblywoman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN McCOY:  So, I want this question 
definitely to come from PSE&G, and then anyone else can answer. 
 
 
Looking at your -- on page 5, when you’re talking about job 
creation.  So, through AI and public utilities can lead to various innovative 
roles and opportunities throughout the sectors in new technologies to 
improve efficiency and liability, and also serve as delivery. 
 
 
So, talk just about just potential job creations; what that can 
look like, the innovation that you’re looking to kind of move forward with, 
and just how that helps the overall infrastructure and helping our 
consumers in a whole. 
 
 
 
65 
 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Thank you for the question, 
Assemblywoman. 
 
 
There is a couple of things that I’d like to highlight here.  On 
page 5, we do talk about some of the job creation that we have, and I want 
to start with the 2,500 jobs that I referred to earlier in my testimony 
around the clean-energy jobs. 
 
 
When you think about where the future is at with energy 
efficiency and electrification -- we talk about EVs -- there are opportunities 
in this space to train folks with skills that can feed their families for years.  
And, that’s what we’ve seen and we’ve witnessed as we’ve gone into the 
communities that we serve -- particularly in some of these underserved 
communities -- to give people those skills that will last for a lifetime.  So, 
we’re really excited about that. 
 
 
In addition to that, as we continue to move forward, there are 
opportunities in some of the infrastructure work that we do where we’re 
constantly looking and training linemen -- and women, I should say -- to 
help us as we continue to build out our infrastructure, as we continue to 
make our grid more resilient.  So, there’s a lot of opportunities that will -- 
that currently exist within the utility, and will be presented in the future.  
 
 
You’ve talked about innovation and technology.  We’re always 
looking to be innovative in a way that helps us to keep our costs down; 
finding new creative ways, bringing in new technologies, to reduce our 
overall expenses to our customers.  And, as we push into that innovation, 
there will be new jobs created in those spaces for members of our 
communities as well. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN McCOY:  Just a follow up, Chairman. 
 
 
 
66 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO: Yup. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN McCOY:  How are we working with 
maybe like our technical schools, community colleges, to invest in making 
sure that individuals have those necessary tools and resources to kind of 
meet those expectations? 
 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Yes, and that’s exactly what our Clean 
Energy Jobs Program has done.  It’s reached into some of those technical 
colleges, reached into some of the local high schools and community 
colleges, and just has gone into -- deep into the community, and worked 
with certain agencies that others may not have worked with in the past.  
And, it’s been highly successful, and we’ve received several rewards for it as 
a result of it. 
 
 
In addition to that, as we talk about jobs, we know that data 
analytics is something that’s here in front of us now.  And, we’ve invested 
and partnered with Rutgers University, and we’ve sent several people into 
the Rutgers program to help learn new skills around data analysis that also 
is a contribution back to the communities in which we serve. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN McCOY:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Assemblyman Barranco. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Thank you; thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. 
 
 
So, my question is to JCP&L.  You guys sell power at my house, 
so now that I’ve got you -- no. 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
 
67 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  No, seriously, to Mr. Tintle 
and Ms. Mullin, there are-- You sell power to the majority of my district.  
Orange and Rockland is also in West Milford, which is also my town.  You 
guys do a great job up there. 
 
 
But, I do have a question specifically about assistance.  So, Phil 
from AC Electric went into a little bit of the assistance that they do down in 
South Jersey, but I was hoping that maybe you guys could share with us -- 
besides what the State offers, relative to assistance -- is there anything that 
you can speak to, relative to assistance for some of the residents of my 
district? 
 
 
MR. TINTLE:  Certainly. 
 
 
Similar to what you’ve heard from our peer utilities here in the 
state today, we do outreach for assistance.  There is community 
organizations, events, etc.  Additionally, we have an entire department of 
very dedicated staff that their main objective every single day is to connect 
customers in need with dollars available to them to help pay their energy 
bills through USF, NJ SHARES, LIHEAP, etc. 
 
 
So, one thing that we try to implore our customers is, if you’re 
having trouble paying your bill, please call us; please communicate with us.  
It is our goal to keep your lights on no matter what -- storm or falling on 
hard times.  And, so, we will work with any customer who reaches out to us 
or responds to us when we make outreach to them to set up installment 
plans; to delay a shutoff.  Maybe you can make ends meet until pay day, 
you just need a few extra days -- we’ll do that.  As long as the customer is 
engaged with us, we will do everything within our power to find them the 
 
 
 
68 
assistance that they need available from some of the programs I’ve discussed 
before. 
 
 
We’ll work with them; there are qualifiers for many of these -- 
some, but not all -- of these programs, mostly focused on income.  We’ll 
work with each individual customer; we’ll get an internal case worker at our 
company to drive them through the process; help them to understand what 
is available and is not available.  And, then, from there, if all else fails, we’ll 
work with the individual customer on the payment plan as I discussed, or 
push off, put a dummy lock on the account, to ensure they don’t get shut 
off until they’re able to make ends meet. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Thank you, Mr. Tintle. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  Mr. Chairman, I’m going to 
copy Assemblyman Barranco’s homework, and direct the same question to 
my own company in my district, PSE&G -- but also add to it, if you don’t 
mind. 
 
 
I have a huge Hispanic population; a huge non-English speaking 
population; and a huge immigrant population that is just learning how 
electricity works in this country as opposed to other countries around the 
world, whether it be Middle East and also Latin America. 
 
 
If you could help me with those answers -- the same question 
that you paid attention, as Assemblyman Barranco asked your colleague. 
 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Assemblyman Marenco, thank you for that 
question. 
 
 
 
69 
 
 
We are very proud to serve all of our customers, and we work 
extremely hard to make sure that we meet our customers with their specific 
requirements. 
 
 
And, when you talk about languages, we offer our bills in a 
variety of different languages that help our customers to be able to read 
them in the language that they speak.  We send out a Customer Bill of 
Rights every year in a variety of different languages -- I believe we send it 
out in over 13 or 14 different languages each and every year to meet our 
customers where they’re at. 
 
 
We currently have 16 service centers throughout our service 
territory, and when any of our customers walk into our service centers, our 
customer representatives are armed and prepared with information and 
resources to be able to communicate with that customer in the language in 
which they need to speak -- including having literature in a couple different 
languages. 
 
 
When they call into our call center, we have a partnership with 
an organization, depending on the language that the customer speaks, we 
can connect them and communicate with that customer to make sure that 
they are hearing the right information from us and getting the relevant 
details that they’re -- that they require based upon what they’re calling for.  
So, we are working exceptionally hard to make sure that we’re meeting our 
customers’ requirements.   
 
 
In addition to that, we’re working on some other innovative 
ideas in terms of how our customers pay us, to make sure that when 
customers are paying us, they have the ability to pay us and read kiosks and 
other information in the languages that they prefer as well. 
 
 
 
70 
 
 
So, I appreciate that question, and we work hard every single 
day to meet the diversity that we have within our service territory. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  Quick follow up, Chairman; I 
apologize. 
 
 
And, my district is the 33rd – I actually might come back to you, 
Mr. Vice President. 
 
 
And, I ask this about your literature.  In my district, most 12- 
and 13-year-olds become de facto lawyers and translators to their families.  
They are the ones in school; they are the ones who are learning English 
faster; and, they are the ones representing their interests.  What do we do 
about your literature sometimes being above the head -- I’m sorry -- of a 12-  
or 13-year-old who is representing families and their ability -- their families 
and their interests?  They’re the ones who come to your offices, be it in 
Union City, North Bergen, and I believe they have one in Weehawken also.  
Very well worn, by the way. 
 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Yes, so, appreciate the question. 
 
 
That is a challenge, and that’s an ongoing challenge that we’re 
prepared to meet. 
 
 
You heard me mention earlier that sometimes customers are a 
bit intimidated to come to the utility.  And, so, it’s important for the utility 
to go in the communities in which we serve.  We’ve spent a significant 
amount of time and done over 100 outreach activities in a variety of 
different communities -- including, I believe, Assemblyman Marenco, one of 
your communities as well.  And, what we do when we’re in the community  
-- that gives us an opportunity to be able to talk to that 12- or 13-year-old 
while they’re standing next to their grandparent or their parent, and to be 
 
 
 
71 
able to help them through that connection.  And, a lot of times, that’s a less 
intimidating environment for us to work with our customers in. 
 
 
So, do we have it perfect?  Do we have it right yet?  I’d say 
absolutely not.  But, are we focused on that, and will we continue to push 
in to find ways to make sure that we’re communicating as effectively as 
possible with our customers?  We sure will. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Any other questions? 
 
 
Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
As a former mayor, I can tell you most people don’t think about 
the electric company until they get their bill or until the power goes out, 
and that’s when your phone starts ringing off the hook, and that’s when -- 
as a result, as you guys know -- all your phones start ringing off the hook.  
“When’s the power going to be on?”  “Give me updates.” “What’s going 
on?”  Everything along those lines. 
 
 
And, I’ve talked a lot about infrastructure today, and earlier 
that was focused on, on the generation side of things.  I think you all should 
be commended for infrastructure on the transmission side of things.  I know 
JCP&L in my district is making a big focus of continuing to upgrade the 
infrastructure there; PSE&G, you railed off a ton of awards that you guys 
have won on that.  And, I think it underscores how important investments 
in hard infrastructure that we have helps keep the lights on. 
 
 
My district is on the Jersey Shore.  We disproportionately get a 
lot of storms, and that knocks out a lot, and that makes it really difficult for 
 
 
 
72 
a company like JCP&L to constantly be responding to that and bringing 
resources in from out of state to do that.  So, that’s commendable to all of 
you, for sure. 
 
 
I did want to ask one or two questions, because we’re here to 
talk about rates at the end of the day.  I wanted to piggyback on what my 
colleague, Assemblyman Sauickie, had mentioned earlier, because I, too, 
had noticed there did seem to be an outlier in some of the numbers that we 
were looking at.  And, I--  If you go back in the news cycle a little bit, I 
would wager that some of the news around the salacious numbers about 
how much rates were going up was centered on some of the big numbers 
that were coming out of Atlantic City, Atlantic County area. 
 
 
So, I just wanted to ask--  Because I tried to dig in, and this is 
just a question, if you have the answer, if you could give it to us afterwards, 
it would be appreciated.  It did seem like you guys over the last year have 
done a smart-meter program.  I know a lot of people do smart meters, but it 
seemed like you guys had really pushed the smart meter. 
 
 
Is there a chance that some of the rate increase, some of the 
numbers that we were looking at -- the outliers, if you will -- were correlated 
to those smart meters, and maybe discrepancies in the non-smart-meter 
billing prior to that? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  So, we explored that concept extensively.  
Obviously, as part of the examination of the customer bill issues that we’ve 
seen, we wanted to take a very close look at the accuracy of the AMI meters 
themselves, and then, in terms of comparison against legacy meters, older-
style electric mechanical meters. 
 
 
 
73 
 
 
So, we have done extensive testing.  I will note, though, that 
the AMI meters themselves have been--  We began our rollout in February 
of 2021, so there is a little bit of leadup to this point before we actually did 
over-the-air activation for over-the-air reads. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  OK. 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  So, prior to even this summer, a fair bit -- or, 
quite a bit -- of the meters that have been installed that were AMI meters, 
we were using those for direct reads for customer consumption. 
 
 
And, I think that’s important to note that, because there was a 
general premise that, “Oh, the meter was installed, and now my bill has 
gone up.”  But, quite frankly, the deployment of that many meters takes 
several years, so we are--  We were examining that very closely. 
 
 
We have our meters also tested by a third-party outfit.  So, in 
terms of watching the in-house type of thing, we want to make sure that 
we’ve got a third-party organization that’s looking at our accuracy classes. 
 
 
And, I’m just checking my numbers very quickly, that our 
meters, every one that we sample tested, including those that were 
identified by customers as part of a high-bill complaint, were tested to be 
between the BPU standard of 99.7% to 100.3% accuracy.  All meters that 
were tested as a result of questions were tested to be reading properly, and I 
think that’s important to note that, because, like everyone, we want to 
make sure we turn over every single rock to make sure that we’re doing this. 
 
 
So, from a deployment standpoint, from an accuracy 
standpoint, we have verified that there is no correlation between those two. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Appreciate the thorough answer, 
Chairman. 
 
 
 
74 
 
 
One more, if I may? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Sure; go ahead. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  So, again, commending all of 
you for the public assistance that you’ve provided.  There’s a lot of people -- 
a lot of American citizens -- who are out there who are hurting right now.  
And, it’s commendable that, with everything that’s going on -- inflation, all 
of that -- that you guys are helping. 
 
 
I tried to take a look at our budget a couple months ago as it 
relates to undocumented individuals, and one of the areas that I had the 
hardest time gathering the right data from was the utility assistance side of 
things.  And, my understanding is that undocumented immigrants in New 
Jersey are able to access utility assistance, whether that’s in the form of the 
Universal Service Fund -- the USF; PAGE, which was administered by New 
Jersey SHARES; and, some other programs as well.  And, those programs, to 
my understanding, don’t require Social Security numbers. 
 
 
So, what I was going to ask -- I’m sure none of you will know or 
want to answer that right now -- but, again, if you could transmit that 
through the Chair afterwards, I was wondering if you had data on how 
many applications for assistance don’t include Social Security numbers, if 
that might be the most technical way to tackle it, or to get me an accurate 
number, I’d certainly appreciate that. 
 
 
Unless anybody wants to speak up right now, you’ve got it at 
the top of your head.  (no response) 
 
 
I didn’t think so. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  If anyone knows, you’re 
welcome to answer. 
 
 
 
75 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Thank you very much, 
Chairman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Any other questions? 
 
 
Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Mr. Chairman, thank you. 
 
 
A comment, first, and then a question. 
 
 
First, a comment to our representatives -- Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Checkley from PSE&G.  I want to thank you, as someone who was born 
and raised and raised their family in Salem County, I know the impact that 
PSE&G has on one, the jobs that you provide; the assistance. 
 
 
In my youth, I would look back at my grandfather and my 
uncles who worked at DuPont, and DuPont went away.  And, then we 
looked at Anchor Glass.  And, now it’s really clear that our flagbearer 
around the economy in Salem County is PSE&G Nuclear. 
 
 
So, we appreciate that. 
 
 
We also appreciate the fact -- and, you pointed to it a little bit, 
humbly -- of the corporate citizenry that you show through your impact in 
so many different ways throughout our community and throughout your 
region.  But, specifically, I want to speak to Salem County and our district 
today. 
 
 
So, thank you so much for that and all that you do, not only 
providing energy to our folks but the other pieces of the puzzle that you 
play of being good, corporate citizens, and we appreciate that. 
 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
 
MR. JOHNSON:  Thank you very much for that feedback. 
 
 
 
76 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  My question -- and, I apologize, I 
had to step out for a moment -- and I think you started to talk about 
(indiscernible) smart meters.  But, I also wanted to make a quick comment 
regarding Atlantic City Electric.  Tremendous job that you do do with 
providing information and educating us through--  I am a customer.  My 
89-year-old mother was a customer.  All of Salem County are customers. 
 
 
And, so, I do appreciate -- even those who aren’t online, or 
don’t have access to the internet or things along those lines -- you do do a 
good job of giving hard-copy information out with the bills and invoices and 
letting people know what’s happening -- great grass, great colored grass, and 
things along those lines. 
 
 
Your website is top notch as far as the information that you’re 
providing via the internet.  I was mentioning earlier today that I’m a utilizer 
of your app on my phone.  The company that I run--  I pay attention to 
that app and outages and what’s happening in the buildings to notify you 
when I have an outage at different locations.  This morning, when I looked 
at that app, I looked at the outages across the region from the Delaware 
River to the Delaware Bay, over the Atlantic Ocean -- you had less than 50 
customers who were without power.  That’s amazing unto itself, along those 
lines. 
 
 
And, so, I want to commend you on that front. 
 
 
I do have a follow-up question, and somebody who is very 
interested in technology and wants to see it expand, and the use of it 
expand along those lines.  So, I apologize; I know that Assemblyman 
Kanitra was asking this question, so maybe you already hit it, but the smart 
meter technology, that rollout.  I have a smart meter, it has been installed at 
 
 
 
77 
my house; it’s been installed throughout the company that I’m involved in.  
And, so, I appreciate that. 
 
 
I guess my question is, I’m also a runner.  And, so, previously, I 
ran with a watch that monitored my steps and how many miles I ran.  And, 
now, recently, I’ve gone to a GPS watch that more accurately watches the 
miles.  So, previously, I may have said, “Wow, I ran 2 miles, and now it’s 
saying I’ve run 2 and a quarter miles.”  Not a lot more, but it’s a little more 
accurate. 
 
 
So, I guess my question when it comes to smart meters -- is it 
possible that the technology of the smart meter is just that much more 
accurate than the previous meters?  And, so, that’s what people have seen, 
is that, yes, it’s going up a little bit because it’s more accurate. 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  That’s a great question, and thank you for that 
question, Assemblyman. 
 
 
One of the things that I didn’t mention in my previous answer 
is that we’ve been--  We were looking, as well, at what the accuracy class of 
our legacy meters were, OK.  And, in a part of my answer where I spoke 
about our AMI meters were between 88 and -- or, 99.7 and 100.3% 
accurate -- is part of a third-party testing.  Our non-AMI meters were 
ranged of 98 to 102%, so a little bit bigger of a window there. 
 
 
Now, I’m an engineer, and when I start to put percentages and 
micro-percentages on total usage by a customer, I don’t think that that’s 
significant enough to really swing a bill one way or the other as you’re 
suggesting is partly your question.  I would say that the legacy meters were 
measuring somewhat of a bigger tolerance, but in this case here it’s--  I 
think it’s a micro-percentage. 
 
 
 
78 
 
 
What I think we should really take away from the AMI reader 
deployment is exactly what you identified a minute ago, is about the power 
of the meter itself in terms of being able to take control of your own energy 
usage.  You mentioned looking at the outage alerts; getting the 
notifications; looking to see what’s your advanced warning of what your bill 
potentially could be.  All of those things are powered and enabled by AMI 
deployment, and it’s certainly a critical tool as we go through with many of 
the subjects that we’ve discussed here today, in terms of affordability and 
energy management, that that tool is absolutely critical for our customers 
going forward, if there’s any question in your mind related to that. 
 
 
But, I don’t think--  I don’t think we’re looking at a significant 
swing in accuracy of a new device that would ultimately have a direct 
impact on customer bills. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Yes, thank you. 
 
 
Any other members? 
 
 
Yes, Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
The gentleman from Atlantic City, I apologize to you for asking 
you the question.  It applies to everybody, but we’ve been talking about 
smart meters and I wanted to ask it a little different. 
 
 
Do you charge those customers who opt out of smart meters? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  Yes, we do.  There is a--  There is a monthly 
charge that if you opt out from being part of the program, there’s a monthly 
 
 
 
79 
surcharge -- I think it’s $15 -- that would be a part of sending someone to 
the house to do it -- a physical read. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Fifteen dollars a month? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  OK. 
 
 
What’s the logic behind that? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  It’s actually the labor to go and read the meter 
itself, Sir. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  What percentage are opting 
out, do you know? 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  It’s less than 2%. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  Right.  And, so, it seems pretty 
exorbitant--  And, honestly, I’m asking the question--  I am asking across 
the group here.  Something to think about on that one, right? 
 
 
If 98% of your customers are getting smart meters, and for the--  
You know, as long as I’ve been alive, you used to have to go to 100% of the 
homes and check them.  You’re getting a significant cost benefit from 98% 
who are on smart meters.  It seems exorbitant to charge the 2% $15 a 
month. 
 
 
So, as I’m thinking about how we can lower bills for ratepayers, 
that may be one to think about, all right, because you are getting a benefit.  
If 98% of your customers no longer require somebody to walk out there and 
check their meters, the 2% who do--  And, frankly, from my experience, 
most of those are seniors.  That’s who I am hearing complaints from about 
this.  I think that cost is bearable, because you’ve got 98% and you’re no 
longer having to do that for it. 
 
 
 
80 
 
 
So, something to think about.  I’m not asking you to really say 
yes or no to it, all right. 
 
 
MR. VAVALA:  Thank you for that-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  The other question I had--  
And, maybe I’ll ask the representative from Rockland.  I’d asked this 
question of the President of BPU.  The BGS -- is that 100% passed 
through? 
 
 
MS. O’CONNELL:  Yes, it is. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  My question -- and, again, 
something to think about across -- why is that 100% passed through to the 
ratepayers?  Why not take some of it?  I mean, if you’re a business-- You’re 
in business.  You’re hopefully making profits.  Why can’t you take at least a 
point or two of that hit, versus 100% of being a pass through? 
 
 
And, the reason I ask that -- because I asked the question earlier 
-- what incentivizes you all to get the best rate?  And, I do understand it a 
little bit better now, in that there may be some lack of controls there to do 
much there.  But, given that there isn’t an incentive that I’m aware of for 
you to get the best rate, and it’s 100% passed through to the ratepayers, 
you might want to think about taking a point or two of that, too, and 
seeing how you’d work that into your economics, versus passing 100% of it 
onto the ratepayers. 
 
 
MS. O’CONNELL:  Thank you for that.  We’ll take that into 
consideration. 
 
 
Appreciate that. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN SAUICKIE:  OK, thank you. 
 
 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
 
81 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  All right, thank you, everyone. 
 
 
And, thank you to the utilities for coming out.  I appreciate 
your time and your expertise. 
 
 
MS. O’CONNELL:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Next, I would like to call up 
the New Jersey Utilities Association, the President and CEO Rich Henning. 
 
 
Good afternoon, Rich. 
R I C H   H E N N I N G:  Good afternoon. 
 
 
First of all, thank you, Chairman, and thank you, Vice 
Chairman -- and, all of the members of the Committee -- for hosting this 
absolutely important hearing today on electricity. 
 
 
And, I don’t say “electricity bills,” because it’s really about 
electric, and we’re really learning quite a bit.  And, I think the folks who 
you have assembled here today have really given a great understanding of 
where we are today and where we need to go tomorrow. 
 
 
I wanted to actually begin at the beginning, because New Jersey 
State law actually requires the State’s electric distribution companies to 
ensure that our electricity in the entire state is reliable, secure, and 
affordable to maintain the quality of life.  That’s 24/7.  We depend on it 
each and every day, and it’s essential for our lives; essential for us to 
continue. 
 
 
And, I think, as you heard from the four entities that were here 
today, that they really do their best to uphold that mandate.  They’re really 
on top of the latest in technology, and they’re on top of their game in terms 
of being able to handle the different complexities, if you will, that the State 
faces. 
 
 
 
82 
 
 
This hearing is so important because we’ve talked about quite a 
few things here today.  One of the things that has come up is the high 
usage.  And, what I like to say is, despite the high usage that we saw this 
year -- and, it was record demand -- the four utilities that were here handled 
that.  Our grid in the State of New Jersey handled that.  We didn’t 
experience what Texas did during the winter a few years ago, where they 
had a complete blackout.  We didn’t experience rolling brownouts that they 
have in California, where my two daughters live, and experience that 
virtually every summer. 
 
 
They handled it.  And, the men and the women -- the highly 
skilled professionals who deliver that service each and every day--  And, I 
was glad to see the President of the IBEW here today, because he 
emphasized that.  Their schooling -- their training -- is so necessary for us to 
continue -- to continue that service each and every day and make sure that 
that’s there. 
 
 
We’ve heard a number of percentages on the average increase 
this year, and I think roughly it’s been about 15% during the months of 
June, July, and August.  I think this was a year--  And, I know I experienced 
in my house, where that air conditioner was humming each and every day, 
24 hours a day.  And, it was humming almost through the months of June 
and July, almost until, probably toward the end of August.  We’ve run those 
air conditioners throughout the state harder than we’ve ever run them 
before. 
 
 
It’s not a secret that high usage really was the Number 1 reason 
-- culprit, whatever you want to call it -- but certainly the Number 1 facet in 
terms of increased bills that customers saw. 
 
 
 
83 
 
 
But, we should also be proud that those people had that 
electric.  They had the capacity to be able to deliver that and meet that 
demand, because that demand was higher than we’ve ever seen it before, in 
the state’s history, for all the electric companies in their history as well.  
And, I think it showed that the investments that have been made in the 
past -- the investments that are going to be made in the future -- are 
investments that are prudent and necessary to move our state forward. 
 
 
I think we understand that we have to modernize and continue 
to modernize our grid.  If we’re seeing ever-increasing demand, we need 
ever-increasing resiliency built into that as well. And, you heard today from 
the utilities, they’re taking steps; adapting new technologies including more 
renewables; but, increasing power through (indiscernible) and hardening 
that grid against extreme weather.  And, they’ve actually been doing that, as 
you well know, because this Committee was at the forefront of it right after 
Hurricane Sandy more than a decade ago.  But, that resiliency doesn’t stop 
there, and I think any of us who saw the community in Carolina, Ashville, 
and what they’re going through right now, you truly understand that these 
storms are becoming increasingly powerful.  And, what we saw 12 years ago, 
or -- yes, it was 12 years ago now, Sandy, 2012 -- is very possible to see 
again in the future, and very probable to see at some point in the future. 
 
 
We know that it was extreme heat that drove higher usage this 
year.  But, did you also know that for the 85 years that we’ve been keeping 
records, this was the most humid summer ever?  The three months?  And, 
you know yourself -- if you’re like me, anyway, or like my family -- you 
know that if the temperature even drops to 70, 68, if it’s 100% humidity, 
that air conditioner is still on.  So, despite it not being 95 with 90% 
 
 
 
84 
humidity, that humidity drives people to use even more air conditioning as 
well. 
 
 
So, hot and humid is really the nature of what that weather 
forecast is actually going out into the future as well.  These come from the 
State Climatologist, David Robinson -- if you know David at Rutgers.  A 
good friend, he spoke at our last conference and gave us, I would say, more 
of a sort of an uneven and maybe a difficult future as to where the state will 
be going with its temperature and humidity forecasts into the future.  And, 
he was looking 20 years, 30 years out into the future. 
 
 
We also have heard testimony here today about the secondary 
reason, if you will, for an increase in customer bills this year.  And, that was 
the costs that are on the marketplace -- the supply cost of energy.  We’ve 
not only heard about the costs, but we’ve heard about some of the drivers 
behind that cost as well.  We both know -- and, we all know, I think, here -- 
that electricity consumption throughout the United States, and certainly 
here in New Jersey, is rising.  The demand for electricity is rising.  In fact, 
the Federal Department of Energy predicts U.S. energy to grow by 15-20% 
in the next decade.  Everybody here has talked about the reasons why, 
whether it’s AI; electric vehicles.  We just know that demand is coming, as 
well as climate. 
 
 
We’ve also heard that electricity supply is not keeping up 
electric demand.  You heard that quite bluntly, that we’re shutting off more 
than we’re bringing on.  So, I think we can also agree that maybe there’s a 
step or two that we need to be looking at in terms of maybe hastening -- 
either hastening the building of newer plants, or continuing to invest in 
some of the older technologies that are powering us now.  It’s one thing that 
 
 
 
85 
NJUA kind of adheres to, is that the best time to plant a tree was 10 years 
ago, but the next best time is today.  So, we can plant that today.  We can 
start talking about how we move forward with energy, and this is a perfect 
time, Mr. Chairman, to be thinking about that -- and, Mr. Vice Chairman. 
 
 
We believe that it really does take an all-above approach.  And, 
I think many of you have mentioned that in this room today, that we need 
to be moving towards that clean energy future, but we also need to be 
investing in some of the technologies of where we are today.  There are 
technologies out there that can help out the use of natural gas like carbon 
capture, and there are things that are being invented and invested in every 
day that we need to be cognizant of and need to be making use of. 
 
 
So, I think, from our perspective, we do need a balanced 
approach, and we agree with you on moving forward with that balanced 
approach.  But, it’s got to factor in as we’re seeing -- the changes that we’re 
seeing in climate -- it’s got to factor in eventually that we’re going to be 
getting to where we need to get to as a state and as a goal. 
 
 
We also understand that utility service for customers -- seniors, 
low-income folks -- is not optional.  This is a service that is essential.  I’ve 
worked in the water business for 34 years; I used to always think, “Hey, you 
know what?  If you don’t have electric and you don’t have gas, you can still 
live in your house.”  One week, maybe 10 days.  If you don’t have water, 
you’re out of there.  This is a life-or-death situation.  Electricity -- air 
conditioning -- when you think about it for seniors and you think about it 
really hard when it’s 95 degrees and it’s 100% humidity, it’s a life-or-death 
situation that they have that electricity 24/7. 
 
 
 
86 
 
 
So, I’ve rearranged my thinking process from just being 
completely about water to now encompassing all the utilities.  But, for folks 
who need help paying those bills, New Jersey -- perhaps more so than other 
states -- has a number of different programs that are out there on the 
horizon.  And, these companies that were here today talked about those, 
but they probably didn’t give the fact that all of them have their own 
programs as well.  There are actually eight State, Federal, and company 
programs that are out there to help New Jerseyans pay their bills.  All of 
those--  These electric-distribution companies have their customer service 
personnel armed and ready to speak to customers about where they can 
apply, where they can go to, to get that kind of assistance. 
 
 
So, I think it’s essential that we make sure that those programs 
are top of mind for the people who need it most -- and, especially, those 
constituents who are calling their Assembly folks, or their State Senators, 
for help in high bills.  But, they can get those assets that can help them pay 
their bills.  
 
 
In conclusion, I don’t want to make this too long.  We 
understand that high bills are frustrating, especially if you’re expecting 
something a little bit lower.  We also understand that the service is 
unquestionably paramount to these folks.  It’s not like they can turn it off.  
So, there are simple steps we believe that can be taken.  I think the utilities 
are starting -- not starting, they’ve been taking notes for many years.  The 
men and women who work there are highly skilled, highly professional, and 
they have been delivering that service for many years.  Their care, their 
concern, is of top of mind for these customers, and it’s -- it’s incumbent, I 
 
 
 
87 
think, on us to be able to work together to really build, if you will, the 
better mouse trap. 
 
 
I did want to make sure that we thank the Assemblyman for 
pointing out that one method that we talked about smart meters will also 
enable customers to get that instant picture of where their usage is.  And, 
may send off actually bells and whistles if their usage has gone considerably 
higher so that they can actually impact their own bills during that cycle.  
And, coming from the water industry, we’ve had smart meters for a number 
of years, and it gives you a picture of where your consumption is virtually 
every 15 seconds.  So, smart meters aren’t exactly the newest, but they’re 
essential. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you-- 
 
 
MR. HENNING:  And, with that, Mr. Chairman-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Anybody have any questions 
for Rich?  (no response) 
 
 
Thank you for your testimony. 
 
 
MR. HENNING:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  If I can have the Rate Counsel 
-- Brian Lipman. 
 
 
Afternoon, Brian. 
B R I A N   O.   L I P M A N,  Esq.:  Thank you. 
 
 
I was going to say good morning, but I guess good afternoon. 
 
 
First of all, I want to thank you for having this Assembly 
meeting, and I want to thank you for saying that this is fun.  This is 
something that -- rates, that I talk about a lot, and I can tell you that very 
few people want to hear me talking about it.  But, it’s important. 
 
 
 
88 
 
 
I want to start off by just -- we did submit -- I did submit a 10-
page--  I’m not going to read that, because you’ll kill me, so I’m going to try 
and be as brief as possible and leave it so we can have a conversation and 
kind of talk about what’s important to you. 
 
 
I do want to talk about, a little bit, what Rate Counsel is -- 
what we do.  We are a statutory representative of ratepayers in every case in 
front of the Board of Public Utilities, where a utility is seeking a rate 
increase or a change in service.  We’re also involved at PJM; we’re also 
involved at FERC.  We are, essentially, the skunk at the picnic who asks, 
“Wait a minute, how much is this going to cost?  Who is going to pay for 
it?  What is the rate impact?” 
 
 
So, I wanted to talk a little bit about that.  I also want to point 
out why this is so important.  About one-third of New Jersey households are 
living in functional poverty.  That means that they are not able to pay all 
their bills to survive here in New Jersey.  Sixteen percent of the nation is 
currently in energy poverty.  Energy poverty is defined where more than 6% 
of the family household income is used to pay for energy bills.  And, I want 
to be clear:  We’ve been focused all day today on electric bills.  Your 
constituents, my ratepayers, they don’t just pay an electric bill.  They’ve got 
a gas bill; they’ve got a water bill; they’ve got a cable bill; they’ve got a telco 
bill.  There’s a lot of bills.  And, it’s important to focus on electric, because 
that’s--  We just came off of a hot summer.  But, I want to caution you, we 
should also be thinking about other bills as well. 
 
 
Also, we’ve been very focused on residential customers.  I don’t 
want you to forget about our industrial and commercial customers -- the 
people who are running businesses every day in this state.  The people who 
 
 
 
89 
are doing employment--  I heard a lot about the jobs that the utilities create.  
And, the one question that I ask all the time -- which is a lot softer answer, I 
will tell you -- is, “How many jobs are being lost because of higher rates?”  
“How many companies are moving out of state because of higher rates?”  
“Who is closing their doors?”  “Who is laying off because they can no 
longer afford their electric bills?”  So, when you look at jobs being created, 
we also need to look at jobs being lost.  That’s an important part of this. 
 
 
I also--  I’d like to take a step back and really explain what a 
public utility is, because I think -- and, I’ve learned from many people that 
that’s not really understood.  The word “public utility” is misunderstood by 
a lot of people.  I work for a government agency, you all work for the 
government.  Public utilities are private, for-profit corporations.  And, that’s 
really important to remember, because they’ve talked a lot about their 
budgets today.  You don’t want to talk to them about their budgets; you 
want to talk to them about how much is it going to be in a rate impact.  
Because for every dollar that a utility spends, they get a $1.09-plus back 
from ratepayers.  There’s a return that the BPU has currently set as 9.6%.  
That is a return on equity that a utility in New Jersey is authorized to earn 
in here. 
 
 
On top of that, they’re going to get their administrative costs 
back.  They’re going to get all their O and M back.  Once we put a facility 
into place, you’re going to want the utility to maintain it; you’re going to 
want the utility to do a good job.  None of this is free.  There is no free ride.  
The utility passes all those costs onto ratepayers.  And, I’m explaining why 
I’m saying this all to you, because part of the reason I’m telling you this is 
this body -- the BPU -- have imposed requirements on utilities to do certain 
 
 
 
90 
things.  The utilities are very happy to do energy efficiency; very happy to 
do electric vehicles.  As long as they earn that return back. 
 
 
So, keep in mind that when you see they’re investing a million 
dollars, that doesn’t mean that rates are going to go up a million dollars -- 
that means rates are probably going to go up about $1.1 million for an 
average customer. 
 
 
So, I am going to kind of spend a little bit of time on State 
rates, and then I do want to touch on Federal.  I do have the advantage of 
going after everybody, so I kind of get to rebut people -- again, being the 
skunk in the picnic. 
 
 
First of all, I am going to focus a little bit on ACE, because, 
honestly, that’s why we’re here, and because they’re first alphabetical so it’s 
just easier.  What I did was -- and, this is a lot more detailed in my 
testimony -- I went over the last year to see how much rates have gone up 
from the summer of 2023 to the summer of ’24, because I wanted to see 
what the difference was, and, there was a significant increase.  Now, to be 
fair, there were four rate decreases by ACE as well that were implemented 
over the course of that year. 
 
 
But, the first one I want to touch on is of course the BGS, 
which we’ve talked about a lot, and I think you all understand that now a 
little bit better.  But, the BGS, it is a pass-through, and that is a significant 
increase.  On September 1, 2023, rates in Atlantic City Electric went up 
$2.08 per month for the average customer.  And, I want to point out there’s 
no such thing as an “average customer.”  What this means is we take the 
amount of usage and we divide it by the amount of customers.  So, $2.08 is 
not the number you’re going to see, but it’s a good bellwether to see how 
 
 
 
91 
much rates are going up or down.  And, it’s just the only way we can really 
compare things. 
 
 
The next thing ACE did was they implemented an 
infrastructure improvement program.  This is a clause mechanism -- and I 
want to take a step back and talk about ratemaking.  And, again, I’m sorry 
that I get so excited about this, but it’s, to me, it’s very important.  There 
are two ways that our rates are implemented in the state:  Through what’s 
called a base rate case, which is a big case where we look at everything the 
utility has done in the last -- since the last rate case -- to earning, how much 
they need, to offsets to make sure that they’re not over-earning.  So, that is 
a holistic view of the utility, and that is really important that the Board has 
those periodically.  I would argue that we should have them more than we 
do, but we have periodic, where we look at everything.  And, that way we 
can make sure that we’re offsetting any gains elsewhere in the company. 
 
 
There’s also clauses.  Clauses are single-issue ratemaking.  That 
means that we only look at one issue.  So, the infrastructure improvement 
programs are putting facilities -- infrastructure facilities that are needed -- 
into rates, and then rolled into rates in between base rate cases.  So, what’ll 
happen is ACE has to come in and say, get approved the infrastructure 
program; they said, “We’ve done $22 million worth of work, we want our 
money.”  On that case, I can’t go and look and say, “OK, we did $22 
million here; but, you did pretty good over here; so, maybe you only need 
$10 million.”  I’m not allowed to do that.  I’m also not allowed to look and 
see whether that investment was prudently done or not at that time.  I have 
to wait until the rate case to see when it was prudently done.  I may have to 
 
 
 
92 
wait five years just to look into a program to see if those facilities were 
prudently invested in. 
 
 
And, I can tell you right now, it is extremely difficult after 
facilities are in the ground for two to three years for me to say that I am, 
“You know what?  That electric wire was the wrong size,” or, “That pipe 
was too big, and you need to downsize it.” 
 
 
So, also, ACE came in for a base rate case in that period of time 
-- that was their first rate case in three years, but they came in for a base 
rate case.  That is where I got to look at everything.  But, we are mandating 
that our utilities invest significantly.  It makes it very difficult for me to 
push down rates when we’re mandating investment and they are making the 
investments.  And, to their credit, for the most part, 99.99% of the 
investments are prudently done.  I’m not finding that utilities are gold 
plating -- for the most part -- and, we do argue on the ins and outs.  But, for 
example, water is a much easier example to give.  Water-treatment plants--  
One of the companies came in for a $24-million increase for a very small 
water plant facility because they had to build a treatment center for the 
PFAS and PFOS, that they were required to treat.  I looked at it, and there 
was really nothing I could do.  That rate increase went through; it’s not as it 
was maybe five years ago, where there might be some fat I could trim.  The 
utilities are doing a better job, but we’re mandating that they do more 
investment. 
 
 
So, I just want to focus back on ACE real fast.  Over the 
summer, the average customer saw an increase of $23.64.  That is the 
increase in rates that they saw.  Now, we’ve heard many times, customers 
don’t really care about the rate, they care about the bill.  So, you have to 
 
 
 
93 
take that rate and then multiply it by the usage.  Now, had that rate gone 
up, ACE’s customers would have seen a pretty hefty increase regardless.  
But, then, we couple that with a historically high summer, which was -- 
2023 was a historically lower summer -- so, if you look at the five-year 
averages, 2023 has the lowest usage and 2024 has the highest usage.  If you 
take the high usage, you take the higher rates, that’s why you’re seeing 
these higher bills. 
 
 
And, in my testimony, I put in for the other utilities as well 
how this works, but it’s essentially the same for the utilities.  Obviously, the 
temperature and usage is the same, but also the rates have gone up 
significantly.  So, I want to talk a little about what you can do on the State 
level. 
 
 
One is, stop passing legislation that increases utility bills.  Every 
time there’s a mandate passed by the Legislature, it increases bills.  And, I 
want to give you some examples.  The ZECS, when we subsidize the nuclear 
power plants, 275 a month for customers -- rates on their rate -- on their 
bills.  There was something called the RESIC recently, that the Legislature 
passed last year.  American Water customers will be paying $2.32 more per 
month because -- just because of the RESIC.  If you look at the clauses that 
are inside the BPU, there’s the DSIC and the (indiscernible) -- sorry, we 
love our abbreviations in the Public Utilities. 
 
 
But, the clauses -- American Water got a massive increase last 
year of $12.33 a month.  Of that increase, $7 a month were clause cases 
investment clauses.  So, we’re forcing them to invest, and they’re not doing 
that for free.  They’re coming back and they’re seeking their money. 
 
 
 
94 
 
 
I want to talk a little bit also--  I know I’m probably running 
out of time, but I do want to talk about the BRA results a little bit as well, 
the PJM auction.  That auction will go--  That will impact us starting in 
June of 2025.  Rates for the average customer in New Jersey will go up $12-
15 a month because of that auction.  Just because of that auction, you are 
going to see a $12- to $15-a-month increase.  Now, what I really want to 
point out is that supply and demand is not solely to blame for this.  There 
are other reasons why, and I don’t want to get into all the details, but the 
PJM has an independent market monitor.  He has reviewed the auction 
results.  Because of the rules that the auction has, the rates have gone up.  
Supply and demand probably would have resulted in about $160-770.  The 
other hundred are market rules.  And, again, in my testimony -- I know I’m 
running out of time -- so, in my testimony I outline what that was. 
 
 
Also, transmission costs are run by PJM.  I put in my 
testimony, one of the things you can do is pass a law for oversight of 
transmission.  Right now there is no oversight -- Federal or State oversight -- 
of transmission build right now.  Nobody is looking at what’s happening in 
New Jersey.  Billions of dollars have been spent in transmission, and 
nobody--  PJM doesn’t look at it; FERC doesn’t look at it; and the BPU 
can’t look at it.  But, in other states, they are--  The Commission is allowed 
to look at it.  This is something that you can do; you can pass legislation 
that will allow the BPU to hold a hearing and look at transmission and 
make sure it’s needed and it’s the right cost. 
 
 
And, I am going to ask you all to please read my testimony and 
take questions, because I know I’ve indulged you more than I probably 
already should have. 
 
 
 
95 
 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thanks, Brian.  
 
 
Does anybody have any questions for Brian? 
 
 
Yes, Chris. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  You mentioned that -- that’s 
OK, they can hear me -- you mentioned that PJM can influence rates by 
setting bid rules, or auction rules.  Can you expand on that a little bit? 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  Yes, I’d be happy to. 
 
 
So, you heard before about the PJM market, and it’s -- I am 
going to use air quotes -- “market.”  It’s not the market that you would 
think of; it’s an administrative construct.  So, it is--  It has a number of 
rules on how you bid in; who can bid in; who doesn’t have to bid in; and 
small changes in those rules can have a massive effect. 
 
 
And, I’ll give you a really good example out of Maryland.  
There were two facilities that retired -- that are retiring coal plants -- that 
are retiring.  PJM said, “Woah, woah, you can’t retire right now.  We need 
you,” and gave them what’s called--  Our reliability must run contract.  That 
means that they are going to run until PJM can figure out what to do to fix 
that problem.  They did not bid into the auction because they weren’t 
forced to bid into the auction.  That was 2,000 megawatts that didn’t bid 
into the auction. 
 
 
Had they bid into the auction -- that I believe I heard over here 
the $14 billion number of the auction -- would have gone down by $5 
billion.  So, that simple change in the rule could have made a huge 
difference.  We have written a letter to PJM asking them to make that 
change.  They have refused; they have not made that change.  The Board of 
 
 
 
96 
Public Utilities, through its organization called (indiscernible), has now 
asked PJM again to make that change, and my guess is you will see 
significant litigation at FERC over those rules in the next several months.  
But, the big concern is the next auction is in December. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  So, one last little problem, if I 
can. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Absolutely. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  What sort of motivation 
would PJM have to produce rules that cost us money? 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  Well, there’s been complaints that the market 
prices were too low-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  By who? 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  By generators, by suppliers. 
 
 
And, keep in mind that PJM ultimately is a TO organization -- 
an organization that is run by transmission (indiscernible) organizations.  
And, if they don’t have the TOs buying, and they don’t have generation, 
they don’t have an organization.  So, it’s a little more than just supply and 
demand dynamics.  And, it is concerning-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  It sounds like maybe a little 
collusion. 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  I don’t know that I would go quite that far, but 
I would certainly argue that PJM favors one sector over another in a 
number of areas. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Thank you for that. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  In your opinion. 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  Yes, I’m sorry, in my opinion. 
 
 
 
97 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Any other questions? 
 
 
Yes, Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  Chairman, if you don’t mind. 
 
 
First off, Mr. Lipman, thank you for this extensive 10 page-- 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  (laughter) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  Thank you for not reading it, 
too. 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  (laughter) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  You said something, and I’d 
like to take advice not to -- to the Legislature -- the advice of Legislature is 
not to come up with initiatives because it seems to--  I might be saying it 
wrong.  It keeps costing the customers, our residents, our constituents, more 
each time. 
 
 
Are there other states in the country that follow that advice?  
And, how do they stay in front of advocating for their residents more ideas, 
new technologies, without costing them? 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  Well, I would never say not to pass any 
legislation.  I think that would be a ridiculous statement for me to make-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  We’ll never stop doing that. 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  Right.  (laughter) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  That’s our thing. 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  But, what I would say is that you really need to 
consider the impact of what you’re doing.  And, what I had said was to stop 
putting mandates on utilities.  When you put a mandate on a utility, like 
the Clean Energy Act, then what happens is they come to the BPU with $7 
billion-- 
 
 
 
98 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Brian, let me just say that 
your band-aid approach to saying this--  It’s your opinion, right? 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  So, you’ve sat before this 
Committee before -- and others from the ratepayer has been. 
 
 
I can tell you that the Legislature on all the bills that we’ve 
moved -- I don’t want to be disingenuous by saying they voted because they 
thought it was moving  -- New Jersey in the best direction for the energy at 
that time. 
 
 
So, I don’t -- I don’t want you to say-- 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  I do want-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Just stick to your focus of the 
facts.  I get--  I get it. 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  I don’t disagree with you, and I also--  I will 
candidly admit that my focus is on rates, and that’s because that’s my job; 
my job is to focus on rates. 
 
 
But, when you look at something like a Clean Energy Act where 
they come in with a huge amount, there’s not a lot we can do as Rate 
Counsel to fight that, because the Legislature has already deemed what it’s 
going to be.  And, there are things in there that should have been left, 
perhaps, to discretion of the Board.  Perhaps it could have been better done, 
in my opinion. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  In your opinion. 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  I was going to say, “In my opinion.” 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  All right, thank you. 
 
 
Do you got any follow-up questions for him? 
 
 
 
99 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  No, you covered it well for me, 
Chairman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Assemblyman.  After two and 
a half hours, I’m going to come over there, (indiscernible) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  I’m done in thirty seconds.  It’s 
more statements. 
 
 
Someone who has been involved in Federal and State 
government as long as I am, you get a little bit jaded and everything. 
 
 
I just want to commend you for doing your job.  You are an 
example of somebody who seems to be very knowledgeable, very objective, 
very non-partisan.  You have a task; you were assigned to do something; 
and--  I mean, I don’t know if you’re going to get yelled at when you leave 
this hearing or if somebody higher up is going to give you a ton of whatever-
-  
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Assemblyman, do you have a 
question for him, besides rattling on about-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN KANITRA:  Thank you for saying, “Stop 
passing legislation that increases utility bills.” 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you for your 
testimony. 
 
 
MR. LIPMAN:  You’re welcome, Assemblyman. 
 
 
And, again, we are a State agency, so-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  I understand. 
 
 
And, last but not least, AARP. 
 
 
Evelyn. 
 
 
 
100 
E V E L Y N   L I E B M A N:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Good afternoon. 
 
 
MS. LIEBMAN:  Good afternoon. 
 
 
Thank you, Vice Chair Kennedy, and the members of the 
Committee for holding this important hearing. 
 
 
I know we’ve been here a long time; you have my written 
comments, and I’ll try to be brief. 
 
 
I am the Director of Advocacy for AARP New Jersey, 
representing our 1.1 million Garden State members -- and all older New 
Jerseyans. 
 
 
Utility rates are an essential pocketbook issue for New Jersey 
residents 50 and better -- as we like to say -- and their families, many of 
whom struggle to pay their utility bills along with other household expenses 
like food and medicine.  Affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy is 
essential to health, safety, and well-being.  Home energy prices that are high 
were unpredictable, make it very difficult for people to cool and heat their 
homes adequately. 
 
 
Such exposure can lead to a host of adverse health outcomes 
that older adults are particularly susceptible to.  These can range from the 
aggravation of chronic health conditions to food spoilage, undue stress, and 
even premature death.  At the same time, we know that moving toward 
more sustainable sources of energy that are cost effective and reliable is 
increasingly important for older adults, their children, and their 
grandchildren. 
 
 
In 2022 -- so, two years ago -- AARP commissioned a poll of 
New Jersey’s 50-plus voters, and they said that utility bills are the second-
 
 
 
101 
most difficult household expense to pay each month.  This was a statewide 
poll across all of our utility service territories, second only to New Jersey’s 
highest-in-the-nation property taxes.  Given recent rate increases, the 
affordability of the utility rates -- or their utility bills -- have only gotten 
worse for far too many.  And, as we’ve heard, more rate increases are 
coming. 
 
 
New Jersey isn’t alone in this situation.  According to Federal 
data, as many as one in three households in the U.S. struggle to pay their 
monthly energy bills.  But, whether it’s rising prices or the need to use more 
electricity in the face of rising temperatures, or a combination of the two, all 
consumers need access to utility services regardless of factors such as 
geography, race, ethnicity, ability level, and income simply to stay safe and 
healthy, why we call these services “lifeline services.” 
 
 
I will say -- and, as you’ve heard a little bit about it -- but New 
Jersey has really been a leader in utility bill payment-assistance programs.  
In particular, New Jersey’s Universal Service Fund program is among the 
best in the nation, and is designed to ensure that low-income consumers’ 
energy burden is affordable.  Under the USF program, eligible--  It provides 
a monthly credit on gas and electric bills for eligible households so that 
their energy burden -- meaning the percent of income that they have to pay 
for their energy -- is no more than 4% of income; 2% for electricity, 2% for 
gas.  The USF program also includes an important arrearage-forgiveness 
program called Fresh Start, that helps consumers who qualify and who are 
in arrears get back on track to paying their regular monthly bill. 
 
 
 
102 
 
 
But, we know New Jersey can do more.  We can do more 
outreach; we can do more education; and ensure a higher percentage of 
those who qualify for this program actually are able to access it. 
 
 
We know that extreme heat -- I should say, perhaps, this was 
calculated before the terrible tragedy of Hurricane Helene -- the National 
Weather Service has calculated that extreme heat results in more deaths 
each year than any other weather event including floods, hurricanes, and 
tornadoes.  We know, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, 
that heat waves are occurring more often than they used to in major cities 
across the United States.  Their frequency has increased steadily from an 
average of two heat waves per year during the 1960s to six per year during 
the 2010s and the 2020s.  According to the EPA -- and, I think we’ve all 
experienced it -- heat waves are occurring earlier and they’re occurring later, 
in both the late spring and early fall. 
 
 
Right now, New Jersey currently prohibits utility shutoffs on 
days that are very cold -- forecast temperatures below 32 degrees all day -- 
but, also, we prevent utility shutoffs on days that are very hot -- forecast 
temperatures that are 90 degrees or higher.  New Jersey should consider 
expanding shutoff protections during the cooling season, given the serious 
health and safety problems that they present, particularly to older 
consumers.  Like our winter-termination moratorium program that protects 
certain customers against shutoffs during the heating season, New Jersey 
could establish a cooling season and broader protections for consumers 
during this period. 
 
 
New Jersey should also consider increasing eligibility for bill-
payment assistance programs like USF, like Lifeline, and this year’s one-
 
 
 
103 
time residential energy assistance payment for the program that you heard 
the BPU President talk about.  We should consider doing that next year, 
and in subsequent years as well.  Along with the bill-payment assistance 
programs, increasing assistance to weatherize and make dwellings more 
energy efficient will also increase access to affordable and reliable utility 
service, as it helps people reduce their energy consumption. 
 
 
We’ve talked about this in a number of areas, but New Jersey 
utility customers -- particularly low-income customers -- would be very well 
served if New Jersey had a good, simple, easy-to-use one-stop shopping 
system to access not just utility-assistance programs, but other safety net 
programs like food, health, housing assistance.  Everything matters when 
you’re looking at your monthly budget, and, so, if you qualify for help for 
health insurance or housing or food stamps and utilities, one will help make 
the other more affordable.  Unfortunately, in New Jersey, we have a pretty 
fractured application system, and folks have a difficult time accessing all of 
those programs at once. 
 
 
We very much agree with Rate Counsel, and, let me just say, 
one of the best things that New Jersey does for older utility consumers -- 
but, really, every utility consumer -- is we have a statutory Division of Rate 
Counsel.  We have a statutory consumer advocate that goes before the 
Board of Public Utilities in every rate case and advocates specifically for 
consumers.  Many states don’t have that, and I can assure you that if we 
didn’t have a Division of Rate Counsel, our rates would be higher than they 
are today. 
 
 
We very much agree with the Division of Rate Counsel that 
New Jersey should get back to basics when it comes to setting rates; rely less 
 
 
 
104 
on these external charges, fees, trackers, and set rates through a 
comprehensive base rate case proceeding where the Board staff, the Division 
of Rate Counsel, interveners who represent organizations like mine, or large 
corporations, can actually have an opportunity to view the full set of books 
and make a fairer and better determination on what is reasonable. 
 
 
The separate charges, the separate fees, the separate trackers -- 
which allow for less oversight and less transparency -- make it more difficult 
to really be able to say that all of our rates are just and reasonable. 
 
 
And, I also wanted to mention the rate of return.  As Brian 
testified, the current return on equity is 9.6%.  That’s the profit that 
utilities are allowed to earn, and something that we think could be 
evaluated a little more closely, particularly in these times when rates are so 
unaffordable for too many.  And, I think that that’s something that the 
Board of Public Utilities should consider in looking at rates across the 
board.  Especially since--  And, I very much appreciate, Mr. Chairman, your 
comments at the beginning of the hearing about how our market is 
changing.  It is dramatically changing.  For the last 20 years, utility 
electricity loads have been flat in most areas of the country.  Energy 
efficiency measures and sluggish power demands meant flat sales.  But then, 
in the last few years, the push to electrify appliances in the transportation 
sector has caused the potential for load growth -- meaning more sales, 
meaning more profits for the utility industry, a more profitable market, if 
you will.  And, most recently -- as you mentioned, Mr. Chairman -- the rise 
of electricity demand for data centers, artificial intelligence, cryptocurrency 
mining, and an improved economy, have caused load growth reductions to 
spike even further. 
 
 
 
105 
 
 
We would urge you, as well as regulators, to make sure that 
commercial customers -- not residential customers -- pay for investments 
needed to support great infrastructure and generation for those commercial 
uses.  And, that you and the Board of Public Utilities ensure that residential 
ratepayers have access to reliable and affordable energy when considering 
policies that would increase electricity use.  It’s kind of stunning to me, the 
other day I was in the car driving and a story came on the radio that in 
Pennsylvania they’re considering restarting Three Mile Island to support 
the load needed for some large data centers.  And, so, if there’s any 
indication of how this market is changing, I thought that really said it all. 
 
 
And, so, we encourage you to make sure that our seniors, that 
all customers, are protected, especially during these dramatic market -- 
changes in the market. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you for your 
comments. 
 
 
Are there any Committee members who have any questions?  
(no response) 
 
 
Do Committee members have any questions? 
 
 
Thank you very much for your testimony. 
 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes all the individuals 
speaking today. 
 
 
I appreciate everybody sitting here for the three hours, and the 
dialogue, and I just would urge my colleagues, thank you for your being in 
attendance the whole three hours. 
 
 
And, as you’re considering the legislation, please keep me in the 
loop. 
 
 
 
106 
 
 
Meeting adjourned. 
 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
 
