 
Meeting Recorded and Transcribed by 
The Office of Legislative Services, Public Information Office, 
Hearing Unit, State House Annex, PO 068, Trenton, New Jersey 
 
 
 
Committee Meeting 
of 
 
SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY COMMITTEE 
ASSEMBLY TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND UTILITIES COMMITTEE 
 
“The Committees will meet to hear testimony from invited guests on the costs and benefits of investing in  
grid modernization and establishing a 100 percent clean electricity standard for New Jersey” 
 
LOCATION: 
Committee Room 6 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 
DATE: 
March 11, 2024 
10:00 a.m. 
 
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE PRESENT: 
 
Senator Bob Smith, Chair 
Senator Linda R. Greenstein, Vice Chair 
Senator John F. McKeon 
Senator Parker Space 
Senator Latham Tiver 
 
Assemblyman Wayne P. DeAngelo, Chair 
Assemblyman James J. Kennedy, Vice Chair 
Assemblyman David Bailey, Jr. 
Assemblyman Julio Marenco 
Assemblywoman Tennille R. McCoy 
Assemblyman Christian E. Barranco 
 
ALSO PRESENT: 
 
Eric Hansen 
 
 
 
 
Celia Smits 
 
 
 
Greg Harris 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
 
Senate Majority  
 
 
Senate Republican 
Committee Aide  
 
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aide 
 
Miranda Crowley 
Suzanne J. Miller 
 
 
 
Erin K. Reagan 
 
 
Diego Romero 
Office of Legislative Services 
 
 
Assembly Majority 
 
 
Assembly Republican 
Committee Aides 
 
 
 
Committee Aide  
 
 
Committee Aide 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
Kieran Tintle 
State Government Affairs 
Jersey Central Power and Light (JCP&L) 
7 
 
Michael Wallace 
Senior Manager 
State Government and External Affairs 
Atlantic City Electric 
11 
 
Joseph Checkley 
President/Business Manager 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Works (IBEW) 
Local 94 
15 
 
Edward Gray 
Director 
Transmission and Distribution Engineering, Asset Strategy 
PSEG 
25 
 
Asim Z. Haque, Sr. 
Vice President 
Government and Member Services 
PJM Interconnection 
26 
 
Jesse D. Jenkins, Ph.D. 
Principal Investigator 
ZERO Lab, and 
Assistant Professor 
Andlinger Center for Energy and Environment 
 38 
Princeton University 
 
Robin Suydam 
Member, Board of Directors, and 
Chair of Outside Directors Committee 
Franklin Mutual Insurance Group 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Elizabeth A. Cerceo, MD 
Director of Climate Health, and 
Associate Professor of Medicine 
Cooper Medical School 
Rowan University 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  49 
 
David A. Robinson, Ph.D. 
Distinguished Professor 
Department of Geography, and 
New Jersey State Climatologist 
NJ Agricultural Experiment Station 
Rutgers University - New Brunswick  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  53 
 
Abraham Silverman 
Managing Director 
Non-Technical Barriers to the Clean Energy Transition 
Center on Global Energy Policy 
Columbia University  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  59 
 
Michael Maloney 
Business Manager and Secretary-Treasurer 
Plumbers and Pipefitters Local 9, and 
President 
New Jersey State Pipe Trades  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  71 
 
Andrew J. McNally, Esq. 
Senior Director 
Government and Regulatory Affairs 
South Jersey Industries (SJI)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  73 
 
Larry Barth 
Director of Corporate Strategy 
New Jersey Resources (NJR)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  76 
 
Robert Kettig 
Manager of Corporate Strategy 
New Jersey Resources 
79 
 
Robert Gibbs 
Director, Government Affairs 
NRG Energy, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  82 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Robert Routh 
Pennsylvania Policy Director 
The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) 
 
 
 
 
 
  86 
 
Anjuli Ramos-Busot 
Director 
Sierra Club 
New Jersey Chapter  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  90 
 
Edward Potosnak III 
Executive Director 
New Jersey League of Conservation Voters  
 
 
 
 
 
  94 
 
Jessica Valladolid 
Environmental Justice Organizer 
Ironbound Community Corporation  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  99 
 
Sharonda Allen 
Founder and Executive Director 
Operation Grow, Inc., and 
Chapter Co-Chair 
Greater New Jersey Gateway Climate Reality Project, and 
Environmental Justice Co-Chair 
Tri-County Sustainability, and 
Steering Committee Member 
New Jersey Progressive Equitable Energy Coalition (NJPEEC) 
 
 
 
  99 
 
Jessamine De Ocampo, J.D. 
Representing 
Earthjustice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
102 
 
Brooke Helmick 
Law and Policy Manager 
New Jersey Environmental Justice Alliance (NJEJA) 
 
 
 
 
104 
 
David Pringle 
Representing 
Empower NJ   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 
 
Kristina Persaud 
Senior Policy Principal 
New Jersey State League for Advanced Energy United 
 
 
 
 
113 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
 
Karla Sosa 
New Jersey Policy Manager 
Environmental Defense Fund, and 
Representing 
The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) 
 
 
 
 
 
114 
 
Doug O’Malley 
State Director 
Environment New Jersey, and 
Steering Committee Member 
Empower New Jersey 
116 
 
Lyle K. Rawlings 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Founder 
Advanced Solar Products, Inc., and 
President and Co-Founder 
Mid-Atlantic Solar and Storage Industries Association (MSSIA) 
 
 
 
119 
 
Paulina Banasiak O’Connor 
Executive Director 
New Jersey Offshore Wind Alliance (NJOWA) 
 
 
 
 
            125 
  
Lloyd Naideck 
Director, Government Relations 
Covanta 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
126 
 
Alyssa Wilds 
Director, Corporate and Community Relations 
Covanta 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
130 
 
APPENDIX: 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Kieran Tintle 
1x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Michael Wallace 
6x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Asim Z. Haque, Sr. 
8x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Jesse D. Jenkins, Ph.D. 
12x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Elizabeth A. Cerceo, MD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19x 
 
Testimony, and 
Additional materials 
submitted by 
David A. Robinson, Ph.D. 
21x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Abraham Silverman 
28x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Larry Barth 
34x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Robert Gibbs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40x 
 
Testimony, and 
Additional materials 
submitted by 
Robert Routh 
42x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Kristina Persaud 
48x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony, and 
Additional materials 
submitted by 
Karla Sosa 
50x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Lyle K. Rawlings 
66x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Lloyd Naideck 
77x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Alyssa Wilds 
79x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Richard Henning 
President and CEO 
New Jersey Utilities 
Association 
81x
 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Zach Kahn 
Senior Policy Manager - East Region 
Business Development and Public Policy  
Tesla, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
83x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Ad Energy 
85x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Advanced Energy United 
88x 
 
Testimony 
submitted by 
Clean Jobs New Jersey  
98x 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 
APPENDIX (continued) 
 
Testimony on A1480/S237, and 
Testimony on A4658/S2978 
submitted by 
NJEJA, 
Ironbound Community Corporation, and 
Earthjustice 
103x 
 
mej: 1-133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
SENATOR BOB SMITH (Chair):  Let me welcome you to the 
two 
most 
interesting 
committees 
in 
the 
Legislature 
-- 
Assembly 
Telecommunications and Senate Environment. 
 
 
This is a hearing about getting information from you, the most 
notable--  I know everybody here gets a newspaper, either online or in paper.  
 
 
Last year, 2023, was the hottest year in 125,000 years  --  hottest 
year on the planet Earth in 125k.  This week, The New York Times had an 
article describing how we’ve just gotten through the hottest February in the 
history of mankind.  Last week and the week before, we saw Texas burning 
down.  A couple of weeks ago, we had massive floods in California.  This is 
serious; global warming is really serious.  And, with our 133 miles of coastline, 
we’re extremely vulnerable -- just as all the other people on the planet are 
vulnerable. 
 
 
So, today, we’re talking about two concepts:  One is a clean 
energy standard for New Jersey -- 100% clean energy by 2035.  Why do you 
want to do that?  The Governor has already issued an executive order that 
that’s the goal of the State.  And, the problem is that we learned our lesson 
from RGGI.  You may remember we had a very good regional greenhouse gas 
initiative.  A prior governor pulled the plug, and we were out of RGGI for, 
like, eight years.  So, the reason that you want to have a clean-energy standard 
in law is that the only way that is not the goal, or the direction to our cabinet 
members and a direction to everybody, is if you put it in law.  You don’t put 
it in law, the next executive, and I’m sure the next executive-- 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  We can’t hear anything. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, that’s terrible. 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
I’m sure the next executive is going to be wonderful and very 
green.  That’s where you get the big bucks. 
 
 
So, I’m sure the next executive is going to be a green executive, 
but why take a chance?  I mean, we had a terribly stark lesson the last time 
with RGGI; we don’t need a bad lesson with the 100% clean energy by 2035, 
which is our Governor’s purpose, he did it by executive order. 
 
 
And, then, the other part of the hearing is grid modernization.  
There are some who would argue to -- with you, or to you -- and I’m actually 
in that camp -- is that our grid really is inadequate, really inadequate.  I mean, 
if we’re ever going to get to 100% renewable, you have to get that renewable 
energy to the people who are going to need it.  Charge their EV cars, get it to 
their homes when we do building electrification.  But, if you don’t have a grid 
that can handle it, you are so out of it, and I would contend that our grid is 
put together by duct tape, toothpicks, whatever.  But, we’re going to hear a 
lot more about it today. 
 
 
So, the second bill is how do we-- 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Louder, please. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  The second bill is how do we get to the 
point where we have a grid that works, or will work better when there’s really 
so many more thousands of megawatts coming from renewable sources.  So, 
interconnections and other issues. 
 
 
We’re turning up the volume, does that help at all? 
 
 
OK, well, for those who didn’t hear any of that, there will be a 
transcript of this proceeding.  So, if you testify today, be careful, because your 
words may come back to haunt you.  It’s going to be on record. 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
And, I have the extreme pleasure of doing a combined joint 
hearing with Assembly Telecommunications.  I’m sure everybody knows the 
Assemblyman, Chairman, Wayne DeAngelo, who is present with his 
Committee today. 
 
 
I am going to do a quick--  I have one of my members here, 
Senator John McKeon, an environmental star from the Assembly side of 
things.  Assemblywoman -- I’m sorry, Senator Greenwald (sic) will not be here 
today? 
 
 
COMMITTEE AIDE:  She’s in (indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Oh, she’s in Budget.  We also have a big 
Budget meeting today, so they’ll be in and out. 
 
 
Let me turn the meeting over to Chair DeAngelo to introduce his 
members. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN WAYNE P. DeANGELO (Chair):  So, good 
morning everyone, and I would like to officially kick off this Joint Legislative 
Hearing of the Assembly Telecommunications and Utilities and the Senate 
Energy and Environment. 
 
 
If we could have a roll call.  Joint roll call. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Senator Space. 
 
 
SENATOR SPACE:  Here. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Senator Tiver. 
 
 
SENATOR TIVER:  Here. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I apologize.  We have two new members of 
the Committee, and, being really--  I don’t know what it is, maybe it’s 
Monday morning and it’s tough getting started. 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
But we have Senator Space and Senator Tiver here, who I did 
not introduce, and I am now so screwed for the rest of the session. 
 
 
So, if you would please go ahead with the roll call. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Senator McKeon. 
 
 
SENATOR McKEON:  Present. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Vice Chair Greenstein I understand is on her way. 
 
 
Chairman Smith. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblyman Barranco. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Here. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblyman Bailey. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  Here. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblyman Marenco. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  Here. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Assemblywoman McCoy. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYWOMAN McCOY:  Present. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  Vice Chair Kennedy. 
 
 
COMMITTEE AIDE:  He’s on his way. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  He is on his way. 
 
 
And, Chairman DeAngelo. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Here. 
 
 
MS. MILLER:  You have a quorum. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  If I can ask everyone to stand 
for the Pledge of Allegiance. 
 
 
 
(Pledge of Allegiance recited) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, everyone. 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman, for allowing me to partner in with this 
discussion today. 
 
 
For those who are in the audience, for those who are out there, 
this is being recorded.  This hearing is for us, so, if you can’t hear us, we’re 
hearing it; we’re hearing the message from the public.  When you get the 
opportunity to speak, you can come up and address the issues that you may 
have. 
 
 
So, I apologize to those who can’t hear us, but it is being 
recorded, and you’re welcome to that testimony. 
 
 
If you are going to have a discussion, please take it outside the 
chambers.  Don’t have them here; things tend to echo in here very loudly, 
and, again, like you said, we’re moving this forward so that both committees 
here -- the same verbiage, the same statements coming from the public and 
the community and the interested parties. 
 
 
As you heard the Senator say, we are moving towards 100% 
renewable generation.  Part of this hearing is to make sure that our 
infrastructure can handle that; to make sure that we have that generating 
capability, and that we’re not just putting out potential hopes.  We’re not 
just kicking a can down the road, and if we’re going to make this happen, we 
have to do it collectively between the Senate and the Assembly to get it to 
the Governor’s desk so that we are moving in the right direction. 
 
 
Things that I have concern of--  I am a realist, I don’t want to pat 
somebody on the back and say, “We’re going to do it,” and then it doesn’t 
come to fruition.  We’re going to make sure that we have the opportunities 
and we have the technology and we have the personnel to build this.  And, 
 
 
 
6 
to make sure once we have that generation, make sure that the infrastructure 
on transmission and distribution lines can handle that. 
 
 
We will hear testimony today from the utilities describing where 
they are currently.  And, I am a home-rule kind of person.  I know we are on 
a multi-state grid, but I want to generate what we use and what we need.  I 
don’t want to push it off to another state that does not have the 
environmental standards or capability that we do.  That’s what is currently 
happening, folks, in case you didn’t know.  We do not generate enough for 
what we use right now, period.  And, half of that comes from natural gas. 
 
 
So, we have a lot of work to do.  We’re going to start our hearings 
going off.  The Senator and I are going to go back and forth handling the 
microphone, so it’s not just one person speaking.  And, then, Committee 
members up here will have their opportunity to ask questions, or just for 
clarification. 
 
 
We’re bringing people up in groups, so those groups, we’re going 
to allow more time that the Senator and myself feel deserve, and get more 
time, more (indiscernible) like the utilities.  But, those and members of the 
public will be given five minutes to give us their concerns.  I have a little timer 
up here to make sure--  We have about 30 people wanting to speak.  We will 
be in excess of around three hours on this discussion.  So, as you get tired or 
need to go outside, please do it quietly. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Senator. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
Our first panel -- and, by the way, you can speak on both bills, 
both concepts, when you come up. We’re not going to do it twice. 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
All right, so, grid mod and the clean energy standard are both up 
for discussion when you come up. 
 
 
Our first panel is electric utilities and PJM.  We have Asim 
Haque, Vice President of Government and Member Services at PJM; Mike 
Wallace, Atlantic City Electric; Kieran Tintle, JCP&L with Jim Fakult, 
Electrical Engineer; and Josie DiRienzo representing PSE&G. 
 
 
Come on up, guys and gals. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Chairman, just -- it was known 
that we’re going to bring up, with Josie from PSE&G, Joe Checkley.  He is 
the Business Manager in charge of the workers from IBEW Local 94, 
collectively. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
Just note for the record, Assemblyman Kennedy, Vice Chair, is 
attending the meeting. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, who would like to be the lead-off 
batter? 
K I E R A N   T I N T L E:  (indiscernible) 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, you are? 
 
 
MR. TINTLE:  Kieran Tintle, representing Jersey Central Power 
& Light. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK. 
 
 
MR. TINTLE:  My apologies in advance.  I was to have a subject-
matter expert with me today; however, due to the high winds this morning, 
she had to be called up north to address that. 
 
 
So, with that, Chairman Smith, Chairman DeAngelo, and 
members of the Senate Environment and Energy Committee and Assembly 
 
 
 
8 
Telecommunications and Utilities Committee, thank you for the opportunity 
to provide testimony relating to clean energy and grid modernization. 
 
 
We are thankful for the critical work you and your colleagues do 
to help us at Jersey Central Power & Light provide safe and reliable electricity 
to our 1.1 million customers in New Jersey. 
 
 
As you well know, the electrical grid is essential to the provision 
of electric service for millions of customers in New Jersey.  It is paramount 
that the State of New Jersey engages in discussions like the one here today to 
ensure State and regulatory actions do not jeopardize the safety, integrity, 
power quality, and reliability of the electric grid in any case. 
 
 
JCP&L is committed to doing our part to work towards New 
Jersey’s clean-energy goals, and we are thoughtful and deliberate in 
illustrating that commitment by continuously testing and introducing new 
technologies and renewable resources to the grid.  I will outline for you just a 
few of the examples of recent plans, investments, and activity which 
illustrates that commitment.  My submitted written testimony provides more 
detail on these and additional projects, but in the interest of time today, I 
have chosen to speak about just three of my company’s New Jersey priorities. 
 
 
The first priority I want to talk about today is our efforts to 
accelerate residential solar installations and connections across our entire 
service area.  In 2023, JCP&L provided final approval for almost 5,700 net 
meter interconnection applications across our service area.  Approximately 
95% of applications are small interconnections, sized at less than 25 
kilowatts, which generally residential-- which are generally residential solar 
installations.  Our contractor partners know and understand this process, 
allowing for more efficient reviews, and a detailed study and/or construction 
 
 
 
9 
by JCP&L is generally not required for these small interconnections.  
Approximately 1% -- or about 40 to 50 applications per year -- are large 
interconnections, sized at more than 500kw.  The processing times for these 
projects are obviously longer, as interconnections may require detailed study 
and circuit modeling; replacement of service transformers and circuit 
improvements; or substation modifications.  Equipment lead time and the 
scheduling of necessary forced outages to complete the work can cause further 
delays for these projects, so we have made a concerted effort to grow our 
installations on smaller and less complicated residential installs. 
 
 
On another renewable energy front, one that is of critical 
importance to the State’s clean-energy goals, JCP&L is engaging in the State’s 
offshore wind development process.  Our company is proud to have been 
awarded the majority of the transmission solicitation for connecting offshore 
wind-generated electricity to the grid through the State agreement approach, 
and we are continuing to execute on that award.  Our piece of New Jersey’s 
ambitious offshore wind plan is once the energy has been brought to the shore 
from offshore developments to connect the wind generation to customers 
across the state.  The overall award consists of dozens of small onshore 
projects, and work is currently in the engineering and procurement phase 
with geotechnical surveying also underway.  As part of the procurement phase 
for this effort, we anticipate placing major equipment orders very soon to 
ensure that these materials are received on time to begin work. 
 
 
The final priority I want to touch base upon today is maybe the 
most exciting.  This past November, JCP&L filed with the BPU “Energize 
NJ,” a proposed $931 million distribution upgrade program.  Furthering the 
success we saw from our Reliability Plus program in 2018, Energize NJ 
 
 
 
10 
proposes more than $270 million in grid modernization, including the 
installation of more than 2,000 additional trip-saver devices across nearly 500 
JCP&L circuits.  More than a half billion dollars in system resiliency upgrades 
will also ease the introduction of distributed energy resources through the 
build-out of additional circuits, and the segmentation of customer pods.  An 
additional $100 million is proposed for substation modernization, increasing 
remote access and automation capabilities in these areas and enhancing 
switch gear at our coastal substations to provide more protection from the 
salty environment. 
 
 
Our team is working diligently to educate stakeholders in our 
service area of the proposed improvements that could come to their 
community, should the BPU approve our application.  I welcome the 
opportunity to speak more with each of you as well about what this program 
could mean for the future energy security of your individual communities. 
 
 
In closing, our company will continue to work diligently with our 
industry peers, regulators, and government partners to ensure that the 
efficiency and integrity of the electrical grid is maintained as we continue to 
advance to a clean-energy future.  We appreciate the opportunity to discuss 
these very important issues and some of the proactive measures and plans we 
have in place to best serve our customers with safe, affordable, and reliable 
power, and we look forward to continuing to work closely with you and your 
colleagues to achieve our mutual goals. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Two quick questions. 
 
 
When did you file this rate case?  The grid mod? 
 
 
MR. TINTLE:  The IIP was filed on November 7th of 2023. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, congratulations on doing that. 
 
 
 
11 
 
 
Has JCP&L put forward any applications for money under the 
IRA? 
 
 
MR. TINTLE:  I believe so, and I would be happy to follow up-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Would you-- 
 
 
MR. TINTLE:  --with you offline-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, please-- 
 
 
MR. TINTLE:  --with the full-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes, send us that information. 
 
 
MR. TINTLE:  Absolutely. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Who would like to go next? 
M I C H A E L   W A L L A C E:  I’ll go next, Chairman. 
 
 
Good morning, Chairman Smith, Chairman DeAngelo. 
 
 
My name is Mike Wallace, Senior Manager State Government 
and External Affairs for Atlantic City Electric. 
 
 
With me, I have my colleague Chris Barker, Manager in Regional 
Capacity Planning, to help with any questions you may have. 
 
 
We appreciate the opportunity to speak to you today on the 
future of the electric grid in New Jersey and our efforts to modernize the grid 
in Southern New Jersey for 572,000 customers. 
 
 
At Atlantic City Electric, we are committed to being a critical 
partner in helping New Jersey advance a clean-energy future and meet the 
State’s clean-energy goals.  We recognize that a grid--  We recognize that the 
grid is the platform that supports this transition.  We will continue to make 
investments in our infrastructure to build a modern, reliable, resilient, and 
flexible grid that will continue to accelerate the clean-energy transition for 
 
 
 
12 
our customers and communities while also focusing on affordability and 
supporting equity in this transition. 
 
 
Our customers across South Jersey are continuing to experience 
improvements in the reliability of their energy service, a result of our ongoing 
efforts to reinforce and modernize the local energy grid, adding new 
technology and smart devices and targeted projects to increase resiliency.  
These efforts resulted in our customers experiencing the lowest frequency of 
electric outages ever in 2023.  Frequencies of outages in 2023 decreased from 
the previous low -- record low -- in 2022 by 5%, and has improved by nearly 
60% since 2012. 
 
 
Connecting our customers to solar and other clean-energy 
sources is a top priority at Atlantic City Electric.  To date, we have helped 
nearly 50,000 customers adopt solar, totaling more than 550 megawatts.  In 
fact, solar has experienced such high penetration in our service area that it 
now accounts for approximately 25% of net peak demand.  We recognize 
that continuing to sustain solar growth with a large amount of solar on our 
system requires ongoing investment and grid modernization. 
 
 
Last year, the Board of Public Utilities approved our Powering 
the Future program.  This was a filing of a four-year, $91.3 million portfolio 
of projects that expands our support for New Jersey’s clean-energy and 
climate goals while furthering efforts to deliver safe, reliable service to our 
customers.  The program allows for the accelerations of 22 targeted projects 
that span four different categories:  Targeted reliability improvements; smart 
technology upgrades; solar distributed energy resource enablement; and 
substation improvements.  The investments through our Powering the Future 
program will address many of our closed feeders, which would pave the way 
 
 
 
13 
for roughly 50,000 new rooftop solar customers -- potentially doubling the 
number of solar installations in our service area.  And, overall, we plan on 
opening about 85% of our closed feeders by the end of 2025. 
 
 
Closed feeders are often caused by substation transformer 
limitations due to reversed power flow that occurs from behind-the-meter 
solar, generating more energy than is used at the meter.  In response, we have 
incorporated over-voltage protection into our standard transformer 
protective relaying package used across the Atlantic City Electric system.  All 
newly constructed projects will utilize this standard going forward.  This 
upgrade standard maintains the safety, reliability, and resilience of our 
transmission and substation equipment during system faults when reverse 
power flow conditions are present due to the high penetration of 
(indiscernible) like solar. 
 
 
Additionally, we have established a multi-year program to 
proactively install over-voltage protection schemes on our transformers across 
the system in order to protect the system for -- protect our equipment for 
reversed power flow conditions.  This program is expected to begin in 2024.  
It has begun, and it will help prevent us from needing to close circuits to solar 
in future years. 
 
 
We are also exploring ways to support larger solar projects with 
a focus on developing cost-sharing mechanisms that lower the financial 
barriers for solar developers for large interconnections over 1 megawatt.  We 
are continuing to develop this concept and socialize it with developers for 
feedback.  We will provide BPU a staff in the Legislature progress updates, 
as we believe this approach will support an important pillar of the solar 
market in New Jersey. 
 
 
 
14 
 
 
Next, our smart energy network deployment continues on track.  
We have installed more than 460,000 smart meters as part of our smart 
energy network, laying the groundwork for New Jersey’s exciting clean-energy 
future with an improved platform that can more efficiently integrate new 
energy technologies and better connect customers to solar energy, energy-
efficiency programs, and electric vehicles.  We expect to have all smart meters 
installed by mid-2024, with a goal of achieving enhanced functionality for all 
smart meters by fall of 2024. 
 
 
We are also supporting the development of the New Jersey 
Economic Development Authority’s New Jersey Wind Port -- a South Jersey 
facility that is essential for the staging, assembling, and manufacturing 
activities for offshore wind projects along the east coast.  Our Wind Port 
Power Connect Project includes upgrading approximately 11 miles of 
powerline with stronger utility poles and more modern equipment to serve 
the New Jersey Wind Port facility.  The powerline primarily runs along an 
existing right-of-way from one of our substations in Salem, New Jersey, to a 
customer-owned substation at the Wind Port facility on an artificial island in 
lower Alloways Creek Township.  Construction is expected to be completed 
by the fall of 2024. 
 
 
And, finally, we continue looking for innovative ways to enhance 
reliability and modernize the grid for our customers.  One project of note is 
our Beach Haven battery energy storage project.  The 1-megawatt battery-
storage project improves the reliability and quality of energy service for 
thousands of customers and seasonal visitors in Beach Haven and Long Beach 
Island during times when customer demand for energy is highest.  The 
battery-storage system will also act as the back-up system if there is an issue 
 
 
 
15 
with a transformer or other critical equipment at a substation serving the 
community -- especially during periods of high demand, creating additional 
capacity and supporting the overall reliability of the local energy grid. 
 
 
In closing, thank you again for the opportunity to speak to you 
today on the future of the electric grid in New Jersey, and Atlantic City 
Electric’s efforts to modernize the grid in Southern New Jersey. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Two quick questions. 
 
 
Did the BPU approve the rate case for the $93 million? 
 
 
MR. WALLACE:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, you’re going at this point. 
 
 
MR. WALLACE:  We’re going; correct. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, that’s terrific. 
 
 
And, same question:  Has your utility made any application to 
the Federal government for IRA funding? 
 
 
MR. WALLACE:  Yes, we have, and continue to make 
applications as well.  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any other?  (no response) 
 
 
I think we’re ready. 
J O S E P H   C H E C K L E Y:  Good morning, Chairman DeAngelo, 
Chairman Smith, and Assembly Utilities Committee; Senate Energy and 
Environmental Committee. 
 
 
My name is Joseph Checkley, President and Business Manager 
of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers -- IBEW Local 94.  I 
represent more than 3,200 employees at PSE&G generation and utility 
businesses, as well as 600 line-clearance tree trimmers throughout the State 
of New Jersey. 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
I am joined by Ed Gray, Senior Director of Asset Management 
and Planning for Public Service Electric & Gas.  In that role, he is responsible 
for electric asset strategy and asset reliability and electric delivery system 
planning. 
 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the important 
topics before you today -- grid modernization and supporting the State’s 
transformation to clean energy. 
 
 
Ed and I are here representing PSE&G in different roles, but we 
can both attest to the solid operation in this journey into the clean-energy 
infrastructure-focused company with a vision and mission to powering a 
future where people use less energy and it’s cleaner, safer, and more reliable 
than ever.  We have a great story to tell, along with a few factors to transition 
into the energy of tomorrow. 
 
 
As we address the challenges of modernization of the grid, it is 
important that we consider the following principles:  Greater resilience to 
hazards of all types and impacts of climate change; improved reliability with 
long-term, multi-year distribution and transmission planning; enhanced 
security; affordability; flexibility; the industry’s ability to integrate load 
growth; distribute energy resources; and EVs; sustainability; how we support 
energy master plan and other goals. 
 
 
Over the last 20 years, PSE&G has improved reliability by 
approximately 20% and reduced methane emissions by approximately 35%  
-- all while maintaining the lowest operation and maintenance cost per 
customer compared to our state and regional peers. 
 
 
Over the next five years, PSE&G plans to invest between $18 
and $21 billion to modernize and strengthen our gas and electric systems, 
 
 
 
17 
which have advanced New Jersey’s decarbonization and energy policy goals 
across all sectors.  We have advanced one of the most aggressive carbon-
reduction targets for the large utility and power generators.  PSE&G 
eliminated its fossil generation portfolio and became a primarily regulated 
utility with carbon-free generation. 
 
 
We are keeping our nuclear plants online that produce 85% of 
New Jersey’s carbon-free energy, the foundation of New Jersey’s clean energy 
supply.  We continue to invest in our infrastructure, to ensure that while 
reducing emissions, we are providing safe, reliable energy for our 2.4 million 
electric customers, and the 1.9 million natural gas customers that we are 
ready for the future energy needs of our customers. 
 
 
We are also committed to provide support for decarbonization 
policies in the transportation, the Number 1 source of greenhouse gas 
emissions; EV charging infrastructure; and a greater focus on conservation 
efforts like landmark energy efficiency programs and its job-training program.  
 
 
Electrification won’t happen overnight.  We need to be 
pragmatic; focus on strengthening what we already have; and plan on what is 
needed for the clean-energy transition.  It requires a comprehensive statewide 
distribution and resource approach to maintain the functionality of our 
transmission and distribution networks, more conservation efforts, such as 
energy efficiency and aid in mitigating steep demand increases.  We think 
there are a few over-reaching factors that should be part of the transition to 
clean energy and the future policy decisions:  Integrated distribution 
planning; a utility roadmap to pinpoint utilities’ resource needs; policy goals; 
operation constraints across New Jersey’s dual energy systems and a plan to 
respond to customers’ needs; improved and accurate regional load 
 
 
 
18 
forecasting; paramount in responding to customers’ demands with the State 
decarbonization policies in an accurate load forecast; proper planning and 
transmission required by PJM; and utilities forecast of customers’ demand 
over 10 to 15 years on the horizon. 
 
 
The collaborative efforts of BPU, PJM, EDC resulted in PJM’s 
reflecting New Jersey’s goals, including for electrification and some extent of 
electric vehicles into 2024’s load forecast.  This is an important step forward 
in setting the regional load forecast in an annual exercise that must be done 
correctly every year continued with robust conservation efforts that will aid 
in mitigating steep demand increases.  State regulatory framework, including 
rate mechanisms, cost recovery, to guide how the investments will be made, 
assuring 
customer 
affordability 
and 
determining 
how 
accelerated 
reinforcement upgrades to the electric system should respond to load growth, 
including DERs, EVs, and others. 
 
 
PSE&G is up for the challenge and remains committed in doing 
its part to support the State’s transition into a clean-energy future and 
preserves the reliability of electric and gas systems.  It includes a mix of 
decarbonization, solutions, and opportunities, including our gas distribution 
system that meets the demands of 1.9 million customers in this state.  Be 
open to considering new solutions and technology that can -- that our own 
network, geothermal, carbon capture and storage, RNG, hydrogen, and etc.  
Be open to considering other policy frameworks to give preference to in-state 
growth energy resources where utilities can play a leading role in developing, 
building, and contracting clean-energy resources. 
 
 
The transition to a cleaner and stronger energy future signals the 
potential for continued investment from our companies as well as other 
 
 
 
19 
entities in ways that will support union workforce and contractors, support 
thousands of labor trade, and the needed skillsets to help facilitate growth in 
this state. 
 
 
Over the years, PSE&G programs have created thousands of jobs 
-- a testament to our skilled men and women in the State of New Jersey.  Here 
are a few examples: 
 
 
So far, support has--  We’ve created under Clean Energy I and II, 
8,200 jobs; Energy Strong I and II, approximately 1,800 jobs;  gas GSMP I 
and II with the extension, 6,600 jobs; and the infrastructure advancement 
program, another 600 jobs. 
 
 
In conclusion, as the landscape of the energy industry changes 
and we work towards a cleaner tomorrow, planning is key.  We are ready to 
do our part and work with the leaders and stakeholders to put forth what’s 
needed for the future.  Our collaborative efforts have made our systems more 
resilient and reliable.  We work hard every day strengthening and improving 
our system to provide reliable electric service now and into the future.  We 
can do more to respond to evolving energy and customers’ needs and 
expectations. 
 
 
IBEW Local 94 represents 4,000 members in this state, and we’re 
ready to do our part. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, a question for everybody. 
 
 
This is a hearing on, do we need to do grid modernization and 
should we adopt the clean energy standard as statutory? 
 
 
So, let me ask you to answer -- for the three people who have 
already spoken:  Are any of the three of you in disagreement that we should 
put the clean-energy standard into statute? 
 
 
 
20 
 
 
Silence is assent here.  If you don’t like it, say, “I hate that 
sucker.” 
 
 
So, JCP&L, Public Service, and ACE.  You have no problem with 
the 100% renewable by 2035 being the adopted legal standard for the State, 
correct?  (no response) 
 
 
I’m sorry, I’m looking at three deer.  You’re in the headlights 
here.  The point of the hearing--  Do you want that energy standard in statute 
or not?  (no response) 
 
 
My God. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Let me ask if I can share what 
the Senator’s talking about. 
 
 
So, I’m sitting down and I’m listening, I’m hearing everything 
that the three of you just said -- before we get to the gentleman on the end    
-- talking about our grid.  And, I shared a concern.  Because I’m a real just 
simple guy.  I didn’t go to college; I’m an electrician by trade.  So, I do listen 
twice as much as I speak; try to hear everything that’s going on and try to 
digest it. 
 
 
What I hear--  I hear that we don’t generate enough electricity 
for what we use now, currently, in the State of New Jersey.  That we get some 
from outside the state.  What I hear is that on the outside, “Hey, we want 
more electric vehicle charging stations.  We need to promote electric vehicle 
use throughout the state.  We need to go 20, 30 times the amount of charging 
stations that we have in the State of New Jersey to make sure that there’s no 
driving anxiety for those that have electric cars.” 
 
 
And, I look into what these stations are.  And, a small charger is 
a 50-amp circuit -- and, those who don’t know what that is, that’s like an 
 
 
 
21 
electric oven in your house, or your central air.  And, then I look at the high-
speed chargers that are being put up now, and they’re 100 amp.  What is 
that?  It’s a small residential house.  And, then I hear the discussion about 
moving towards heat pumps, and how much power does that take?  I looked 
and researched and found out that residential heat pump in a normal-sized 
house is anywhere from 50 to 60 amps.  And, again, another electric stove, 
electric oven, air conditioner in your house. 
 
 
So, as we are going to be potentially using more electricity, and 
as we’re trying to move ourselves to 100% renewable, right now it’s 2050; 
we’re trying to escalate that to be more environmentally friendly. 
 
 
Do you guys see a concern going forward on what we have on the 
voltage that we’re providing?  The megawatts we’re providing out to our 
residents, putting that plan together?  That’s what we’re kind of asking; that’s 
why we need your help.  Because, I don’t want to just push something out 
there that’s going to collapse. 
 
 
MR. TINTLE:  I think it’s difficult for me and my company right 
now to speak on generation, as we’re not a generation company.  We’re 
strictly distribution and transmission.  So, in thinking about everything that 
you just said, our focus -- and, what you’ll read in the testimony and what I 
touched on a little bit -- is ensuring that that much-needed power has a means 
to get where it needs to go. 
 
 
So, for that customer who perhaps has range anxiety or 
something like that is considering making a move to an EV, the first thing 
that I’d be asking is, “Well, am I going to have reliable enough service to be 
able to charge it every night?  If there’s an emergency, am I going to be able 
to get out of the house and get where I need to be?”  And, that’s exactly what 
 
 
 
22 
we’re working on; that’s exactly what that filing that we made in November 
in front of the BPU is after -- improving reliability for all of our customers. 
 
 
On the transmission side of things, kind of the same idea.  We’re 
bringing more clean energy on, so we need to make sure that we have 
adequate capacity.  And, looking at the way that our transmission is 
structured right now, things flow very west to east, that’s kind of how it’s 
always been in bringing offshore wind here in New Jersey.  We’re going to 
have to re-engineer that a little bit, we’re going to have to be moving from 
east to west.  And, so, that’s where we feel we’re doing our part with that 
transmission line here through the center of New Jersey. 
 
 
So, that’s where we see our part, and we are doing everything we 
can to keep up with the growing demand of our customers and make sure 
that we’re keeping power flowing both ways. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Chairman-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I have something I’d like to 
add, Mr. Chairman, if I have a moment. 
 
 
So, I have a statement, and then I have a yes or no question, and 
we want you guys to give us a yes or no answer. 
 
 
So, my first statement is, we can generate all the power we want 
from any source--  First of all, let me just clue you guys in.  So, I am a project 
manager. I am an IBEW electrician, and, I have been a project manager on a 
lot of infrastructure projects throughout the state, whether it’s a switching 
station or a generating station or a substation.  I’ve worked very closely with 
PSE&G on how they generate and distribute power. 
 
 
 
23 
 
 
You can generate all the power you wish from all the sources you 
wish.  But, if we do not have the distribution system to get that power to 
where it’s consumed -- which is all of our houses and all of our places of work, 
and this building, and everything else that requires a light -- it doesn’t matter 
how much power you generate if you do not have the distribution system to 
get that power where it needs to be. 
 
 
So, these two bills, Mr. Chairman, have a chicken-and-egg 
problem.  We cannot talk about revising the State’s renewable energy 
portfolio until we talk about the electric grid-modernization plan.  The 
electric grid-modernization plan needs to come first.  It doesn’t matter how 
much power you make if you can’t get it there.  That’s my first--  That’s my 
statement. 
 
 
My question is this:  The revision of the State’s renewable-energy 
portfolio, as I read it this morning, Mr. Chairman -- both of you -- mandates 
that you, the generators of electricity in the State of New Jersey, need to 
produce 35% of the electric that we consume from renewable sources by next 
year.  Is that feasible? 
 
 
Yes or no?  And, I need you to say something here, guys.  I know 
that you’re putting your reputation on the line, but we need professionals to 
answer these questions, not legislators.  We need people--  This is--  I have 
said it many times.  The efforts that we’re trying to make in this world are 
not of a political dilemma.  We all want renewable clean energy.  This is an 
engineering dilemma, and we need you guys to say that so that we can make 
the decision going forward something real that we can meet. 
 
 
MR. WALLACE:  Assemblyman, respectfully, Atlantic City 
Electric is not a generator as well as JCP&L has stated. 
 
 
 
24 
 
 
So, we’ll be procuring that energy, so that’s--  I can’t speak to 
that-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  No problem-- 
 
 
MR. WALLACE:  --today.  
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  You’re not our guy -- for that 
question.  But, I’m sure our guy is in the room. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Several. 
 
 
MR. CHECKLEY:  So, I can only speak from the IBEW 
perspective, and the training perspective on what it takes get a workforce. 
 
 
And, I can tell you it is a large goal you’re asking me to answer.  
Because the workforce that we have for utility workers, and the training 
program that goes along with it, it is an extensive program to train-- 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  We can’t hear you. 
 
 
MR. CHECKLEY:  It is an extensive program to train-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Hold on one second. 
 
 
Ma’am in the back, this is being recorded.  This discussion is for 
us up here on the panel, but you can get a copy of those records after this.  
Please don’t be disruptive during the meeting. 
 
 
Go ahead, Joe. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Speak up, too. 
 
 
MR. CHECKLEY:  So, my original statement was, from the 
IBEW perspective, you’re looking for me to answer on a timeline and where 
my workforce and my manpower comes from is from a training perspective.  
That training perspective can take up years to train and qualify. 
 
 
 
25 
 
 
We are in a timeframe right now with our training and 
qualifications where we are bringing in outside resources to help and to just 
do the current upgrades and modernization. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Joe. 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Yes, sir. 
E D W A R D   G R A Y:  I’ll just offer that this is a question where we have 
way more variables that we don’t control than we do, we’re asking the 
utilities, “Can we do it?”  We haven’t talked about the generation. 
 
 
We also have to set up the rules, how are people going to--  If 
we’re going to send external parties -- we talked about this as part of our 
testimony.  It’s an integrated discussion with PJM.  We have to have also the 
groups that are going to be producing this.  Solar developers, how do they get 
compensated?  How do we cite stuff?  It’s much more than, “What can 
utilities do?”  It’s, “What are the rules going to be set up?” 
 
 
I was involved in the initial solar stuff back in 2010, we have 
SRECs.  And, we saw solar come on like gangbusters.  We really saw huge 
numbers.  We’ve got over 1,400 megawatts of solar on our system today.  
But, the numbers that you’re asking for far exceed that.  And, without the 
rules being set up in an integrated way, how do we think about this?  Is it 
safe? 
 
 
Because, it needs--  Our primary goal is safe and reliable, that’s 
Number 1.  Because, if we have a reliability problem, that’s on us, and we 
can’t have that.  But, the other side of it is, “How do we make it affordable?” 
That’s where some of those rules come in.  How are we going to incent this 
stuff? 
 
 
 
26 
 
 
So, I think it’s a--  If we do that, we need to have a much more 
comprehensive discussion with all the players involved to kind of--  What are 
the right rules to set so we can make this happen?  Because the rules are set; 
we’ll follow them.  If this is the goal and we’ve got it set up and everyone 
knows what the rules are, we’ll make it happen.  We can definitely do that. 
 
 
But, the problem is, there are too many things that you’re asking 
us to decide that really go beyond what -- I mean, there’s technically what we 
can do, and then there’s how is it going to be set up to make it work overall?  
So, that’s what we kind of talked about, is that whole, we need a multi-year 
plan, like 10-, 20-year plan with all the players involved, so we talk about this 
stuff and try to figure out the right, safe, reliable, most cost-efficient way to 
get it done. 
A S I M   Z.   H A Q U E, Sr.:  Chairman Smith, Chairman DeAngelo, 
Assemblyman -- You’ve asked an excellent question. 
 
 
I have not testified yet, but it might be a good time for me to 
interject into the conversation, if that’s OK. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Go for it. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Do your testimony. 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  Thank you so much. 
 
 
You all have a copy of my testimony.  My name is Asim Haque; 
I am here from PJM Interconnection.  We are the regional grid operator for 
13 states and the District of Columbia.  We operate at the bulk power level. 
 
 
So, I think it would be great if we just entered into a 
conversation.  Again, you have my testimony.  Ultimately, we were invited to 
participate today; we sincerely appreciate the invitation. 
 
 
 
27 
 
 
Both of these bills that you’re considering are distribution and 
retail in nature, and, thus, and we don’t have a position on the legislation.  
But, you’re asking great questions around what is within the realm of the 
possible. 
 
 
Let me just talk to you a little bit, spend a couple minutes talking 
to you about what we’re seeing on the bulk power system.  Again, the bulk 
power system is the high-voltage transmission system that effectively 
connects to utility-scale generators.  We make sure that the watt is delivered 
to my colleagues here on the right side -- that they’re delivered to distribution 
substations that we’re matching supply and demand in real time.  It is -- based 
on your experiences -- quite an operation.  We invite you to come visit our 
control room in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, to see it done in real time. 
 
 
We also plan the bulk system.  So, we plan transmission 
planning.  We have to make sure that we envision it as urban planning.  So, 
if you know that a load pocket, a demand pocket, is going to be increasing 
somewhere, we need to make sure that the transmission is robust enough to 
make sure that the watt gets from point A to point B.  And, we also operate 
competitive wholesale markets because we’re trying to keep costs down as all 
of this progresses. 
 
 
So, where do we stand right now?  We are certainly in an energy 
transition.  I think everyone at PJM Interconnection would tell you we are in 
an energy transition.  Why are we in an energy transition?  Because the 
generation mix of tomorrow is going to look very different than today.  So, I 
just kind of hold a few numbers out, and we’ll refer to a few of the graphics 
that are in my presentation -- but, a couple sort of numbers to have an 
understanding of.  
 
 
 
28 
 
 
So, we’re about a 185,000-megawatt system.  In our generation 
interconnection queue, which is the line the generators get in to actually 
connect to the system, there are 250,000-some megawatts that are waiting to 
interconnect onto the system.  Ninety-eight percent of them are either solar, 
wind, or battery source.  So, I know there are a lot of individuals in the room 
who are concerned about the future of the generation mix and the power 
system.  The grid is going to be greener; the generation interconnection queue 
is evidence of that.  So, we are in an energy transition.  We’re studying the 
energy transition pretty intensely.  We have committed to helping states 
advance their energy policies.  Part of our five-year strategy is to facilitate 
State and Federal decarbonization policies reliably and cost-effectively, 
because ultimately our folks house the engineers who are trying to make sure 
that with all of these policies in place, who we can actually deliver the watt 
from point A to point B. 
 
 
So, just a couple of thoughts as you sort of progress through your 
thinking on this.  Again, PJM does not take a position on this -- on either of 
these bills.  But, if you actually take a look at--  In our testimony, page 3, we 
have gone through what is an exhausted interconnection process reform 
effort.  So, we started this back in 2021.  We’re regulated by the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission based out of Washington, D.C. 
 
 
And, so, the FERC -- is the acronym -- approved our reform 
process, and we are in the throes of processing a lot of renewable power that 
is trying to find its way onto the bulk system.  Again, the queue is 250,000 
megawatts of primarily renewable resources trying to find its way onto the 
system. 
 
 
 
29 
 
 
If you take a look at one of these graphics -- and this is just sort 
of--  These are data points, and these data points can change as time evolves.  
But, they’re data points for today as you’re considering what to do 
legislatively.  In 2024 and 2025, based on the process that was approved by 
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, you’re going to process 72,000 
megawatts of primarily renewable resources through the queue.  It’s a lot of 
green power. 
 
 
There is another slide, actually, after that slide in your testimony, 
that shows the breakdown of sort of state by state by state, of all of the states 
and the power that was within that 72,000 megawatts, that is going to find 
its way onto the grid.  New Jersey’s numbers are there, along with every other 
state.  There will be a lot of--  There will be a lot of renewable power that A, 
finds its way into the system, and B, will be available to generate what is 
effectively a renewable energy credit, because that’s effectively what these 
RPS standards across the jurisdictions are meant to do -- to create these 
renewable energy credits that my colleagues over here, as well as competitive 
suppliers, then acquire.  And, then, effectively, that acquisition represents 
delivery to consumers. 
 
 
So, there will be a lot of RECs -- there will be a lot of renewable 
energy credits -- that find their way onto the system.  Now, REC prices, which 
are procured competitively, are kind of high right now.  And, that’s just 
because the demand for RECs is high.  But, with all of this supply looking to 
find its way onto the system, one would expect that the supply and demand 
fundamentals will even out, and RECs will get cheaper.  But, regardless, we’re 
not talking about costs here we’re just talking about can it happen?  Can the 
numbers happen? 
 
 
 
30 
 
 
The honest answer is we don’t know yet.  That’s the honest-to-
goodness answer.  So, we are not policymakers; I’m not here to suggest policy.  
The ability to be flexible in this as we are trying to determine--  And, 
specifically, the item that I would just spend some time thinking about is the 
in-state requirement, because there will be a lot of RECs that find their way-
-  There will be a lot of renewable power that finds its way onto the PJM 
system at large, and every state’s got different dynamics.  And, so, there will 
be a lot of RECs available.  Whether or not there will be enough in-state RECs 
by date certain is something to think about and consider.  I think that our 
interconnection queue reform, again, will create great opportunity for a lot of 
renewable power to find its way into the system.  It will create a great 
opportunity for more and greater renewable energy credits. 
 
 
The question ultimately will become, what gets built?  And, let’s 
just talk about that for two seconds.  So, what will get built?  In the slide 
presentation that -- and a few of the graphics that are in the testimony that I 
provided, one concern that we have -- and, we’re being very transparent about 
this concern -- is that we currently have about 40,000 megawatts of resources 
that are through the generation interconnection queue, primarily renewable 
resources.  And, they’re done with anything PJM oriented.  We’ve given 
them--  You can, from an engineering perspective, interconnect to the grid 
safely.  And, so, that’s 40,000 megawatts and it’s sitting dormant right now.  
The reasons that we hear are the supply chain for parts is really challenging 
right now.  We hear that in some jurisdictions, the ability to obtain State and 
local citing permits is really, really challenging.  We hear that in some facets 
of these development opportunities -- and, you’ve seen it, unfortunately, with 
 
 
 
31 
what’s happened with offshore wind -- but the financing dynamics have 
changed or evolved. 
 
 
So, again, just a data point.  I’m not here to be suggestive about 
what you should do either way.  Again, these are primarily retail-related bills.  
But, that 40 gigawatts -- those 40,000 megawatts that are kind of sitting 
dormant, not interconnecting -- is concerning to us.  It’s a concerning data 
point to us.  So, we are hopeful.  We are very hopeful that we see that build-
out, because what we are worried about is later on in this decade a supply-
demand mismatch.  So, there are a lot of primarily fossil resources that are 
leaving the system for primarily policy considerations -- a lot of Federal EPA 
rules. New Jersey’s got a standard in place.  There’s a standard out in Illinois. 
Virginia has a standard in place, deeper into the future here.  So, we’re seeing 
a lot of fossil leave the system; we’ve got to get that fossil replaced by these 
renewable resources that are trying to find their way onto the system in order 
for supply and demand to match. 
 
 
So, we’re concerned about that.  This 40,000 megawatts of 
resources that have found their way through the queue-- We’re going to 
process 72,000 megawatts of resources over just the next two years.  We’ve 
got to see that build-out occur. 
 
 
And, so, that’s effectively it.  Again, I don’t have commentary on 
the specifics of either of these bills because, again, we are a wholesale power 
grid operator and these are primarily retail in nature.  But, I did want to 
provide you with just a little perspective as you’re advancing through this.  
Again, I don’t have specific answers on what should the in-state number be.  
But there are -- as my friend down here said -- there are a lot of variables that 
are outside of our control.  Hearing from a developer, “I really want to build 
 
 
 
32 
out, but I cannot get a transformer,” or, “I cannot get a solar panel,” that is 
out of any of our control, frankly. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Why can’t you get a connection? 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  Yes, well, we are trying there.  We are certainly 
trying. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  When you get a chance, would you send us 
-- and we’ll distribute to our respective committees -- a little letter about your 
interconnection reform? 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  We’d like to hear more about that because 
we hear-- 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  Absolutely, Chairman-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --horrible stories about connection. 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  Yes, I am absolutely happy to do that. 
 
 
Again, we went through a process -- a two-year process -- where 
we talked about it within PJM stakeholder process, got approval from the 
FERC, and we are now in the process of processing all of these backlogged 
projects.  There’s going to be quite a few projects that find their way through 
the queue. 
 
 
Availability of renewable resources should not be an issue with 
all of these projects that we’re processing.  It’s a wonder that they get built. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for your comments. 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Any more questions for the 
gentleman, Mr. Chairman? 
 
 
 
33 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  OK, so, if the 40,000 
megawatts of build-out do not occur, will we be able to increase our renewable 
consumption from 8 to 35% by next year? 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  I have not run the numbers on that specifically. 
 
 
In New Jersey, the breakdown -- I don’t have the breakdown of 
the 40,000 megawatts that have cleared the queue and what belongs, 
effectively, to the State of New Jersey -- the boundaries of the State of New 
Jersey. 
 
 
You’ve got--  We do, I do have -- and, I can get you those 
numbers, because I think that’s actually very relevant to what you’re 
deliberating here.  We do have a breakdown of the 72,000 megawatts for ’04 
and ’05 that are going to find their way through the queue.  They equate to 
25 projects, 1,500 megawatts or so. 
 
 
Your queue, specifically New Jersey’s, have a lot of offshore wind.  
You’ve got storage.  You don’t have a lot of solar in the New -- in from the -- 
what are -- purely New Jersey projects trying to find their way onto the 
system.  A lot of offshore wind, some storage, but very little solar.  When I 
look at sort of state by state by state and compare, most states are in a half 
solar, maybe a third -- half solar, a quarter to a little more wind, and then a 
good amount of battery technology.  But, there’s not a lot of solar trying to 
find its way onto the system in New Jersey right now.  And, what those 
dynamics are, we’re not privy to. 
 
 
But, just as a data point for you all -- another data point for you 
all -- as well.  But those are just hard numbers, and the reality of where we’re 
situated right now. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  Thank you. 
 
 
 
34 
 
 
I never met a PJM guy; I’m glad to have met you. 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
This is kind of more a follow up on the discussion.  I appreciate 
your discussion on that; very helpful for us. 
 
 
As I looked at our system, we need to get moving on the offshore 
wind, respectfully.  And, some people who live on the coastal region, I’m sure 
they found Senator Smith’s email -- they have found mine -- on those who 
don’t want to see the offshore wind projects come to fruition.  But, I believe 
it is an integral part of what we need to do, because of the magnitude that it 
can provide our state. 
 
 
What I also would like to see a lot more of in the panels up here 
as we’re going forward is a lot more battery storage.  So, as I see it, the 
offshore wind -- and, common sense is going to tell you we’re going to use the 
power during the day, for the most part, especially in the summertime; at 
evening, not so much.  But, the wind doesn’t stop at night.  The sun stops at 
night, but the wind doesn’t stop at night.  So, we’re going to be able to charge 
up these batteries and have these battery-storage units whether we use the 
type that are solar, and those who don’t understand or see in the report, you 
see a couple million watts in the Conex box size, a railroad car size Conex 
box, to building them inside as we’re pushing in our offshore wind power. 
 
 
I see a great opportunity, but, again, my concern comes up 
throughout the past 17 years I’ve been here, you see very minimal 
conservation of the use of power.  That was part of our discussion.  A lot of 
it is just on, hey, we need to generate more.  And, I see the panic when we’re 
out of power. 
 
 
 
35 
 
 
So, for those who are just talking on the dais, I think we need a 
stronger vegetation-management plan, making sure that we have our utility 
distribution and transmission lines -- that there’s not, going through Main 
Street -- we see our utility lines and you see the trees with the bad haircuts.  
It’s really dangerous, and I say that respectfully to the men and women who 
are installing or maintaining these distribution lines.  They’re not working on 
power that’s off; they’re working on live electricity, and their lives are in 
danger.  It’s like going into war, it’s horribly dangerous.  I feel for the workers, 
and we need to do a stronger job on vegetation management as well. 
 
 
As you heard the Assemblyman say, we don’t have a good power 
grid coming to the household, it doesn’t matter what we generate.  So, I know 
that we are working on big projects, and I know we’re crossing the 500-meg 
line coming from the shore region over towards Lawrenceville, New Jersey, 
on the Texas Avenue area. 
 
 
So, I know we’re making inroads.  That’s part of our concern.  
We want to make sure that we can deliver so that we’re not looking at, hey, 
are we going to hit this 35% mark in a year?  The Senator and I, we want to 
make sure that when we’re putting something out, we’ve got to make sure 
that it’s deliverable for the most part, and we don’t just want to see it, “Oh, 
well, we tried” and shrug our shoulders later. 
 
 
MR. HAQUE:  Chairman, can I add one thing to that? 
 
 
I did want to say -- and, one of the gentleman here mentioned it 
-- we have done some -- put together -- some really tremendous work on -- 
obviously, PJM is not in the policy-making space, so if we have an offshore 
wind policy that finds its way onto our desk, we try and facilitate that and it 
just sort of is. 
 
 
 
36 
 
 
But, I did want to say the work that has been done, and the name 
of it was mentioned as a concept of state agreement approach -- on trying to 
build out the transmission system to help advance offshore wind is honestly 
pretty foundational work.  And, I want to compliment, specifically--  I did 
watch the Oscars last night, so I want to thank some people--  I am going to 
compliment specifically the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities, and the late 
President Fiordaliso, our new Chair President Guhl-Sadovy, and that staff 
worked tirelessly with us to try and advance what is an entirely new 
framework to advance offshore wind transmission.  This is all stuff that folks 
have not done, so their ability to really put pen to paper with us on that 
matter now-- The projects and where they’re situated, it’s a different story 
altogether, but we are effectively preparing for and creating the transmission 
grid on shore to allow for those watts to inject safely and reliably. 
 
 
So, I did want to just say that and also thank my colleagues at 
the BPU. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Any Committee members have 
any questions? 
 
 
Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BAILEY:  I guess more of a statement. 
 
 
First of all, I just--  It’s great to see District 3 so well represented 
here today in these discussions, with our first panelists.  So, it was great to 
see their voice heard today. 
 
 
Much like you said, though, it’s going to be just common sense 
on this.  I can look back to early in 2010 when my own private organization 
jumped into the pond of solar.  And, when we tried to upgrade, because the 
grid wasn’t ready yet in Salem County, we were unable to do so.  But Atlantic 
 
 
 
37 
City Electric came along and increased and upgraded that grid and allowed 
us.  I’m looking back at the days of 500-plus SRECs -- per SREC.  Those days 
are gone; maybe they’ll come back, but they’re gone for right now. 
 
 
So, it is important.  Ultimately, that is the chicken or the egg.  
The grid has got to be in play.  We can have all these great ideas that are 
important ideas for our future, but unless we have that answered first, then 
some of these things can go by the wayside. 
 
 
So, thank you very much for your comments today. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO.  Thank you. 
 
 
And, Chairman, the last question I have -- and, I’m not expecting 
the answer now, but maybe if the utilities can get -- specifically Public Service 
-- can get some information. 
 
 
I know we have three reactors down in Salem and Hope, they 
generate about 2.2 billion watts if I’m not mistaken -- ballpark number.  I 
know there is a fourth pad there, and if the utility has any discussion on 
potentially adding a fourth reactor down there since we lost five years ago -- 
it was shut down, not lost -- Oyster Creek, which was slightly under 700 
million watts.  So, just looking to see if that’s the consideration as we’re 
considering and talking about renewable green energy. 
 
 
Thank you.  Thank you, gentleman. 
 
 
If I can call up Panel 2 for discussion:  David Robinson, a 
professor at Rutgers; Elizabeth -- excuse me for screwing your name, Dr. 
Elizabeth Cerceo; and, Robin Suydam.  And, then, if I can also call up Abe 
Silverman, Professor at Columbia, and Jesse Jenkins, Professor at Princeton 
University. 
 
 
 
38 
 
 
There should be five seats up there.  And, again, I apologize if I 
made a mistake on anyone’s name. 
 
 
Thank you, and, we’ll just--  We’ll go reverse this time.  Last time 
we started on--  We’ll start over here with the gentleman on my right. 
J E S S E   D.   J E N K I N S, Ph.D.:  Chairman DeAngelo, Chairman 
Smith, honorable members of both committees, I really appreciate the 
opportunity to speak today to the possibilities of enacting legislation to get 
the State to 100% carbon-free electricity by 2035. 
 
 
I am Dr. Jesse Jenkins, I am an expert in macro-scale energy 
systems engineering and clean energy policy at Princeton University.  I have 
to note, though, that my testimony today is my own as an individual.  I do 
not represent the views of Princeton University or any other organization. 
 
 
In February 2023, Governor Murphy signed Executive Order 
315, establishing the goal of supplying 100% of the State’s electricity from 
clean resources by 2035.  However, as Chairman Smith alluded in the 
introduction, New Jersey will not reach this goal unless the Assembly and the 
Senate move soon to pass legislation to codify that target in State law, and 
ensure that we have mechanisms to ensure we reach that goal. 
 
 
Last year, my Princeton research group, the ZERO Lab, 
conducted detailed electricity system modeling for the whole PJM system, 
and concluded that New Jersey can reach this 100% clean electricity goal by 
2035 while maintaining affordable and reliable electricity supplies.  We 
estimate that if this target is reached by 2035, New Jersey electricity 
customers would pay no more for their electricity -- for their bulk electricity 
supply -- than we did in 2019, even under a higher-cost renewable energy 
scenario. 
 
 
 
39 
 
 
Additionally, over 20,000 megawatts of new, clean electricity 
and energy storage capacity would be built in New Jersey.  Clean electricity 
resources in New Jersey would generate over 20% more electricity than is 
produced by all resources today, including our fossil power plants.  The law 
would support about 24,000 jobs building, operating, and maintaining clean 
generation and storage plants in the state while preserving all employment at 
our existing nuclear power plants, and about 96% of employment at existing 
natural gas-fired power plants in the state.  Additionally, the vast majority -- 
between 75 and 90% of total subsidies provided by State clean electricity 
programs -- would be received by clean electricity generators in New Jersey, 
supporting investment and jobs here in the state. 
 
 
So, today, as the Joint Committee begins work on a new 
discussion around clean-electricity standards, I encourage you to ensure that 
this legislation enacts a sound balance between four overarching objectives.  
 
 
First, establishing effective policy mechanisms to ensure the 
State reaches its clean electricity goals.  Second, supporting the growth and 
expansion of New Jersey’s clean-energy economy and jobs.  Third, 
maintaining affordability for electricity customers.  And, fourth, ensuring 
reliability of the State’s electricity supplies. 
 
 
Last session, Senator Smith introduced the New Jersey Clean 
Energy Act of 2023, or S2978.  As you begin work this session, I encourage 
you to consider the substitute amendment to S2978 prepared last November 
as a starting point for consideration.  In my professional opinion, the 
proposed statute struck the right balance between these four critical 
objectives.  That bill would have required New Jersey clean electricity 
suppliers to procure enough clean electricity to meet 100% of our annual 
 
 
 
40 
electricity sales by 2035, with interim requirements from 2027 onwards.  
These new requirements would build on and incorporate -- not replace -- 
existing State supports and policies for solar PV, offshore wind, and existing 
nuclear power plants.  It would also establish a trailblazing requirement that 
100% of the State’s reliability needs are met by clean resources by 2045.  
 
 
I also encourage you to empower the Board of Public Utilities to 
harness competitive procurement processes that seek out the most cost-
effective resources available, and provide long-term contracts for clean-energy 
attributes.  Rather than mandating further deployment of specific resources 
like offshore wind or distributed solar, the Legislature could instead establish 
broad goals for the share of clean electricity from within the state versus from 
the broader PJM region.  Then, we can use competitive, all-clean source 
solicitations to determine the most affordable portfolio of resources to meet 
those critical goals. 
 
 
Crucially, long-term contracts provide revenue certainty for 
clean-energy developers that makes it easier for them to obtain lower-cost 
financing.  And, that translates directly to savings for New Jersey electricity 
consumers. 
 
 
It is also critical that whatever goal the Legislature establishes for 
in-state clean-energy targets, that the statute contains appropriate safeguards 
or offramps if insufficient clean electricity is not available in the areas -- is 
unavailable in New Jersey at a reasonable cost. 
 
 
Finally, enacting 100% clean electricity standard, or CES, would 
not harm reliability of the State’s electricity supply.  First, a CES would 
preserve the operation of the State’s existing nuclear plants for the long term.  
That’s a critical foundation for further progress.  Second, the CES would 
 
 
 
41 
permit the use of existing natural-gas plants to meet our reliability needs, and 
would not require retirement of natural gas generators until clean, reliable 
replacements are available.  A CES, importantly, requires qualified clean 
resources to supply 100% of the State’s demand on an annual volumetric 
basis, but it does not require that electricity consumption in New Jersey is 
met by clean generators in every hour of the year.  That requirement thus 
permits existing natural-gas plants to operate when necessary to meet 
reliability needs.  That flexibility could allow the State to rapidly and 
confidently transition to 100% clean supply on an annual basis in just 11 
years, without requiring any reliance on novel technologies. 
 
 
Meanwhile, because clean-electricity markets dispatch wind and 
solar first -- because they have no fuel costs -- before expensive gas for our 
generators.  A CES would bring on new clean electricity that would still 
substantially reduce generation from gas plants and slash resulting pollution. 
 
 
Third, the Legislature should additionally require 100% of our 
reliability needs are met by clean and carbon-free resources by 2045.  And, 
we don’t have to wait to get started on that path, as the Legislature can 
authorize the BPU to create new programs to support near-term deployment 
of innovative clean electricity technologies, including long-duration energy 
storage, advanced nuclear power, or green hydrogen.  Scaling up these 
technologies in the near term is essential to eventually end our reliance on 
polluting gas-fired power plants entirely. 
 
 
I want to stress that a commitment like this would be truly 
historic.  No other state in the country with 100% clean electricity standard 
has committed to actually meet all of our reliability needs with carbon-free 
 
 
 
42 
resources as well.  But, of course, doing so is key to ensuring the State’s 
electricity supply is truly clean.   
 
 
Additionally, as we’ve noted, investing in grid modernization will 
facilitate 
this 
transition 
by 
upgrading 
our 
grid 
to 
handle 
new 
interconnections.  I want to offer three additional suggestions on the grid-
modernization bill. 
 
 
The first is to ensure that these plans that the utilities develop 
focus on harnessing and unlocking demand flexibility.  Batteries, hot water 
heaters, energy storage, EVs all have an enormous amount of flexibility as to 
when they operate.  But, we need the right incentive programs to unlock that 
flexibility.  It can substantially reduce the scale of investment and the cost of 
grid modernization while connecting and taking advantage of more carbon-
free resources. 
 
 
Second, I would encourage not just a single year, but regular 
integrated distribution planning to ensure that this becomes an ongoing 
practice for efficient planning of our distribution systems. 
 
 
And, third, I would direct BPU to study the use of performance-
based rate design and incentives, and rate reforms for consumers that would 
align utility and consumer incentives with the clean-energy transition that 
we’re trying to undergo.  I am happy to talk with the Committee more about 
those recommendations in the future. 
 
 
I thank you all for your time and the opportunity to testify, and 
I am happy to answer any questions you have. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Jesse. 
 
 
Any Committee member questions at this time?  (no response) 
 
 
 
43 
 
 
Seeing none, Robin. 
R O B I N   S U Y D A M:  Thank you. 
 
 
Good afternoon -- good morning, everyone. 
 
 
Thank you for inviting me today. 
 
 
I am here to speak in favor of the 100% clean-energy bill and grid 
modernization to deliver it as quickly as possible. 
 
 
I am sharing comments as a member of -- a 30-year member -- of 
the Franklin Mutual Insurance Company Board of Directors, a New Jersey-
based company since 1879 that insures over 100,000 homes and small 
businesses in New Jersey.  I am a recently retired independent insurance agent 
who, for 40 years, insured thousands of families and businesses in Central 
Jersey.  I am a New Jersey homeowner, a farmer, and a local environmental 
commissioner in Franklin Township, Somerset County, a triangle-sized 
municipality with water on two of three borders -- the Delaware Raritan 
Canal, Millstone River, and the Raritan River.  And, a commissioner in a 
town where we are struggling to strengthen local ordinances with a town 
council that’s reluctant to require anything stronger than State minimums. 
 
 
You get the issue; I hear that clearly today.  I am here to speak 
to the urgency of the issue -- of the financial picture.  Consider insurance part 
of the disaster plan. 
 
 
At Franklin Mutual, we are literally a mutual; we have no share 
holders.  The company is owned by and exists for the benefit of the 
policyholders.  How do we, as an insurance company, make good decisions 
for the business and for our insureds, given the reality and impact of climate 
change in the context of a heavy regulated industry? 
 
 
 
44 
 
 
The science of insurance is in determining the price to charge 
today for a policy that will cover tomorrow’s loss.  We don’t know the price 
of goods sold until long after the product is sold.  Traditionally, we’ve relied 
on actuaries using historical data, and we use loss control; we inspect our 
risks; we encourage insureds to take necessary steps -- replace their roof, put 
in a new electrical panel.  We even give them a free app from FMI to help 
them manage and protect the properties.  But what about climate risk?  How 
do we loss control with climate change?  We can’t just rely on historic data. 
 
 
Our big concern now are what are called severe convective 
storms.  We typically thought of hurricanes as the big issue, the $10 billion-
plus events.  In 2023, for the first time ever, the biggest dollar amounts came 
from severe convective storms.  What are they?  These are the results of 
warm, moist air rising from the earth, manifesting as drenching 
thunderstorms with lightning, tornados, hail, or destructive straight-line 
winds.  Insured severe convective storm losses in the U.S. have grown at 10% 
annually since 2000. 
 
 
What about here in New Jersey?  We’re just like the national 
figures.  Severe thunderstorms are now the highest frequency of billion dollar-
plus events since 1980.  This is new; we can’t project by looking in the past.  
The severe convective storms are now a part of underwriting, resulting higher 
water tables; ground saturation; trees coming down; power losses.  All of these 
are increasing the cost of goods sold.  Rain storm forecasts now put the 
insurance company on alert as we prepare for incoming losses.  It wasn’t this 
way 10 years ago.  A hurricane and its winds, yes; a blizzard with freezing 
temps, yes; now a simple rainstorm has all hands on deck handling claims.  
 
 
Anything that mitigates storm damage will bring down the cost 
 
 
 
45 
of goods sold.  Where are these coming from?  You guys all know the data.  
Remember, warm, moist air rising from the earth.  Our temperatures are 
rising in New Jersey at two times the global average; our precipitation in some 
parts of the state will be 48% higher by the end of the century than what it 
is now.  Our sea level rise, our coastal flooding, our inland flooding.  We have 
billions of dollars at risk.  With 2 feet of coastal flooding -- which will become 
permanent inundation by 2050 -- we’ve got 50,000 New Jersey properties 
worth $4.5 billion.  Move that to 5 feet of coastal flooding, that will be 
permanent inundation by 2100 -- that’s 223,000 New Jersey properties worth 
$40 billion.  FEMA inland flooding stats are the same.  One hundred-year 
flood zone, now coming every 10 years, is affecting 360,000 properties.  The 
500-year flood storm -- we had three of those in the last 13 years -- that’s 
affecting almost 500,000 properties.  Where is the disaster protection going 
to come from? 
 
 
Here is my concern:   What are insurers doing right now?  
Because of the rising risks, more claims more often being paid out; we are in 
a hard market for insurance.  Right now, insurance companies across the 
country are going bankrupt -- a dozen each in Florida and Louisiana in the 
last five years.  There is double-digit price increases; companies are pulling 
out of markets -- you’ve been reading about this -- Texas, Florida, California.  
Coverages are being restricted, even at FMI.  We used to offer $25,000 worth 
of backup in sewer and drain and sump pump overflow; now we’re reducing 
it to $3,000. 
 
 
And, this results in wholesale market movements out of the 
insurance industry into state plans.  A lot of you know about Citizens 
Insurance down in Florida.  They handle the wind -- even they are now at 
 
 
 
46 
maximum.  Where do insurance companies go when they can’t go any 
further?  We all buy re-insurance.  Well, guess what -- the re-insurance 
industry is now in a hard market.  What are they doing?  Getting major price 
increases; reducing exposures in regions of the country.  They’re exiting lines 
of business; they’re requiring the underlying insurance companies to bear 
more risk, and they’re putting exclusions on fossil fuel-intensive activities. 
 
 
In New Jersey, catastrophic re-insurance costs have increased by 
almost 80% compared to 2018.  That’s five years.  And, all of that gets passed 
on to our insureds -- your constituents. 
 
 
The industry is full of adaptation, mitigation, and resilience 
efforts.  It’s very laudable; there’s lots of great studies, a lot of initiatives 
happening.  Insurance companies are working with  banks, they’re working 
with State government, they’re working with property owners to improve 
building codes; pick where we build and how we build.  Developing -- build 
back better endorsements on insurance policies so people have money to do 
the better thing.  They’re helping to reduce losses; they’re making a difference 
over time, but it takes money and it takes time and we have to incent people 
to do it.  Because they think, “Oh, the company will pay, the State will pay, 
I really don’t have to make those changes now.”   
 
 
So, where are we going to get effective protection?  Dr. Carolyn 
Kousky, who, among many important titles, is a member of the Federal 
Advisory Committee on Insurance at the U.S. Department of Treasury in an 
article published a week ago today said, “One final action insurers could be 
taking around risk reduction is drawing the link for policymakers, as well as 
their clients, between weather extremes and greenhouse gas emissions, 
 
 
 
47 
because ramping up the phaseout of fossil fuels is the most comprehensive 
risk strategy.”  We need the State’s help. 
 
 
In a 2015 speech now famous in the insurance industry, entitled, 
“Breaking the tragedy of the horizon:  Climate change and financial stability,” 
world-recognized economist and insurance regulator Mark Carney spoke to 
the Bank of England on this topic and he said, in 2015, “If we, the insurance 
industry, procrastinate, if we get to a tipping point -- especially if that point 
were to occur suddenly -- it could potentially destabilize markets, spark a 
hard cycle of losses, and a persistent tightening of financial conditions.”  In 
other words, an abrupt resolution such as insurers raising prices, withdrawing 
from markets -- is that where we are now -- is in itself a financial stability risk. 
 
 
With feedback between the market and policymaking, climate 
policy becomes more like monetary policy.  I think that’s why I’m here, to 
make that point.  Please help Franklin Mutual and the entire insurance 
industry remain a key, healthy part of disaster planning for New Jersey 
families and businesses.  Our best chance at resilience is a 100% clean energy 
statute, and we urge the State to invest completely in grid modernization so 
we can deliver it. 
 
 
And, I would be happy to try to answer any questions you may 
have. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Robin, I don’t necessarily have 
a question for you, it’s more of a statement. 
 
 
So, what other states have you delivered this address to? 
 
 
MS. SUYDAM:  You’re my first; my own state. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  So, one of the problems that I 
see -- because, as you heard, with our grid, we are a multi-state grid. 
 
 
 
48 
 
 
MS. SUYDAM:  Yes. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  So, we could be 100% by 
tomorrow, but when they’re still cranking up the coal burners across the river, 
there’s-- 
 
 
MS. SUYDAM:  They affect us-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  --there’s nothing to go up to the 
stratosphere to protect us. 
 
 
MS. SUYDAM:  Yes, we have-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  One of my major concerns that 
I have is that our generators are not our carbon-emission problem.  It’s the 
vehicles that we’re driving in the street, that’s our Number 1 problem.  So, 
when they said energy needs, you heard that in my preference from before.  
 
 
I’m mindful of what you’re saying, and respect that, but this--  
We’ve got to get a bigger global look on this for us to make this -- our 
environment, and issues -- resolved. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I’d like to add to your 
statements, Chairman. 
 
 
And, obviously, you are a very well-informed individual.  But I 
think the will to do clean energy is very real in the Legislature.  We all have 
the will for it, and it’s good business. 
 
 
So, I appreciate your comments, but I am going to agree with 
what the Chairman said.  We are trying to get this done, we just want to be 
smart about it. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Doctor. 
 
 
 
49 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  I apologize, I have to beg the Committee’s 
forgiveness.  I have to depart. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Oh, you have to leave? 
 
 
DR. JENKINS:  Yes, I am due back at the university very shortly; 
apologies. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Pleasure seeing you, thank you. 
 
 
Doctor. 
E L I Z A B E T H   A.   C E R C E O, M.D.:  Hello. 
 
 
Thank you very much for allowing me the chance to speak on 
behalf of my patients and my community. 
 
 
My name is Dr. Elizabeth Cerceo; I am an internal medicine 
physician.  I am an Associate Professor of Medicine, the Director of Climate 
Health at Cooper Medical School at Rowan University, and a member of 
Clinicians for Climate Action New Jersey.  My views do not necessarily reflect 
those of my employer. 
 
 
As a physician practicing in an environmental justice 
community, I can assure you that the impacts of fossil-fuel combustion are 
impacting the health of New Jerseyans today, and this will only increase into 
the future.  Steps like tighter air quality regulations from the EPA are needed.  
But, as we saw just this morning, some of those regulations are already in the 
process of being walked back, so we can’t wait or try to rely on the Federal 
government to protect the health of New Jerseyans. 
 
 
The question that we’re facing is how many deaths from fossil 
fuel pollution are just too much, and how small a number is acceptable?  
There is no question that deaths result from fossil-fuel pollution and climate 
change; the question is just how many?  And, many of my colleagues have 
 
 
 
50 
already begun the complex task of modeling, but there are quite literally 
millions of environmental, social, and political variables.  Some calculations 
put the number into the tens of millions.  If you include premature deaths 
from fossil-fuel pollution, estimates will stretch into the hundreds of millions.  
A commonly quoted and conservative estimate from the World Health 
Organization is that one in five premature deaths are caused by fossil-fuel 
pollution.  In New Jersey, more than 17,600 deaths are directly linked to air 
pollution, based on research out of Harvard’s T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health. 
 
 
Using an older formula only looking at malnutrition and malaria, 
floods, diarrhea, and cardiovascular disease, Georgetown University biologist 
Colin Carlson had calculated that warming already killed more than four 
million people globally since 2000.  This means that deaths from climate 
change have already exceeded those from all other WHO global health 
emergencies combined, other than COVID.  But, these are deaths not just 
attributed to pollution. 
 
 
And, of course, aside from people dying, many more people are 
made sick from everything from heart disease, diabetes, cardiovascular 
disease, cancer, stroke, Alzheimer’s disease.  It’s been linked with increased 
neurologic disease in our children; infectious diseases, we see vectors spread 
from things like West Nile and Lyme disease and increased hospitalizations, 
all with very burdensome costs on the health-care industry. 
 
 
The health effect of many toxic pollutants are often only 
uncovered years after people have been exposed -- think about the tobacco 
industry.  And, the fossil-fuel industry has picked up the same playbook as 
tobacco with their executives prioritizing profits over people, trying to sow 
 
 
 
51 
doubt.  But does anyone have doubt that breathing in thick, polluted air is 
good for us?  Is it surprising that the concentrated pollution of a cigarette and 
diffuse pollution all around us can cause disease?  Unlike tobacco, though, 
we know that everyone is at risk because we can’t choose the air that we 
breathe.  With the EPA definitions of clean air, 36% of Americans -- about 
120 million -- breathe unhealthy air.  Many counties, including Camden 
County, where I live, get failing grades for air quality. 
 
 
While everyone is impacted, some are certainly affected more 
than others.  Nationally, people of color are 61% more likely to live in a 
county with failing grades for air quality, and Black New Jersey residents are 
two times more likely to have asthma as white patients.  When my patient 
comes in with lung cancer that has metastasized to the brain, we don’t say 
that this is from fossil-fuel pollution, though now we know from work from 
Hill, et al, at Lancet the exact mechanism of action, how particulate matter 
can lead to lung adenocarcinoma.  And, we know that 20 to 40% of lung 
cancer results are from fossil-fuel pollution. 
 
 
When my patient who lives next to a diesel truck stop or an 
incinerator has a heart attack, we don’t usually cite fossil fuels as the cause.  
And, when a child dies from asthma, we don’t link cause of death as pollution 
-- even though my colleagues in the UK now do. 
 
 
Decreasing air pollution has direct and immediate health co-
benefits to communities that enact these changes, and New Jerseyans would 
benefit directly from clean energy generated in New Jersey.  Numerous 
studies have shown that health benefits decreased mortality, decreased days 
of lost wages, which substantially outweigh implementation costs.  Often, the 
costs of change are considered as a stand-alone expense without the context 
 
 
 
52 
of the millions of dollars saved in public health and lost work days.  As an 
example, the clean air act from the 1970s resulted in a savings of $30 for 
every $1 spent.  And, time--  And, again, public health measures, provisions 
that provide for clean air, clean water, and soil, are found to be cheaper than 
polluting because people maintain their health. 
 
 
The supposition that the market should dictate decisions ignores 
the lives lost and the illness caused by fossil-fuel pollution.  We must not 
assume that fossil-fuel executives and their lobbyists have the best interest of 
New Jerseyans at heart.  Rapid adoption of a clean-energy standard should 
be part of an important public health agenda where lives, health, and well-
being of New Jerseyans are all valued. 
 
 
And, as a physician and as a mother, I am in full support of this 
bill, and I urge this Legislature to prioritize the lives of our neighbors 
similarly. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Doctor. 
 
 
And, as we have said before, we are in support of moving 
ourselves and New Jersey into that clean generation direction, making sure 
that everyone’s health is at the forefront, as always. 
 
 
Some of the things we need to also strongly consider is, like you 
said earlier, using less.  Probably one of the biggest users of electric generation 
are our data centers.  As I look out in the audience, I haven’t seen one person 
without their head down, staring at their device-- 
 
 
(laughter) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  --for more than five minutes, 
let alone their bad eyesight for staring at their stuff.  There’s a chiropractor 
 
 
 
53 
in the room, that’s probably why; they’ll straighten out their necks, they’ll be 
better out as well.  
 
 
I say that jokingly, but they use an enormous amount of power, 
enormous amount of power.  So, as we move New Jersey forward, I want to 
make sure that Jersey generates what it is.  I know that those-- We can get 
power and other programs in other states.  Other states don’t have the laws 
that New Jersey has to protect the workers who are doing those installations, 
with prevailing wages or project labor agreements. 
 
 
We’re just licensing in New Jersey to install our solar panels, and 
that installation of that system is done by an electrical contractor.  That’s 
under the New Jersey Electrical Contractor’s Licensing Act.  And, it’s installed 
by licensed electricians.  I know the integrators, the companies that are out 
there, that are selling and getting involved with the financing and 
implementation of this.  They maybe partner up, but they have an electrical 
contract, they’re doing that installation.  Other states don’t. 
 
 
I know Mr. Jenkins had to run out, and that was some of the 
problems that we had with last session’s language.  I don’t want to see we 
can’t provide goes to another state.  Attorney General told me we can’t 
enforce anything we do in New Jersey in another state, so I’m not chasing it 
over there. 
 
 
So, thank you, Doctor. 
 
 
Any questions for the doctor?  (no response) 
 
 
Seeing none, sir. 
 
 
If you could just state your name for the record. 
D A V I D   A.   R O B I N S O N, Ph.D.:  Good morning; my name is Dave 
Robinson. 
 
 
 
54 
 
 
I am a distinguished professor of geography, and the New Jersey 
State Climatologist at Rutgers University in New Brunswick.  I lead the Office 
of the New Jersey State Climatologist and Rutgers’ Global Snow Lab. 
 
 
I would like to thank Chair Smith, DeAngelo, and their 
committees for inviting me to testify at today’s hearing.  The views I express 
are my own; I am not speaking as a representative of Rutgers, any offices, 
institutes, or centers in which I participate, or for any colleagues. 
 
 
My submitted testimony includes more on my background, and 
also more information regarding the Office of the State Climatologist.  In 
short, the State Climate Office serves as the focal point for activities 
pertaining to the weather and climate of New Jersey. 
 
 
We assist a plethora of stakeholders in making informed 
decisions that directly or indirectly involve a weather or climate factor.  We 
operate the NJ Weather Network, a constellation of 67 stations that observe 
a variety of meteorological elements every five minutes, making them freely 
available via our website. 
 
 
Today I will provide -- be providing -- a brief overview of New 
Jersey’s climate.  I will focus on climate and the anthropogenic underpinnings 
of what has been transpiring in recent decades, along with what the future 
may hold.  Again, my written comments provide additional information that 
time prohibits me from covering today. 
 
 
But, first off, the Earth’s climate system is remarkably complex.  
New Jersey’s mid-latitude location on the eastern edge of the continent, with 
a major ocean to our east, leaves the state directly exposed to most every 
climate variable imaginable.  Clashes between cold and warmth trigger 
significant weather events over the course of any year.  This was made 
 
 
 
55 
abundantly evident with Sandy, along with New Jersey bearing the brunt of 
a number of other impactful events this century, including Tropical Storm 
Irene; Post Tropical Cyclone Ida; and an abundance of record warmth. 
 
 
There is unequivocal evidence in recent decades that New 
Jersey’s climate is changing, due in large part to human impacts on the global 
climate system.  New regimes of temperature and precipitation are evident, 
and changes in the strength and frequency of severe events are underway.  
This is expected to continue in the decades ahead, along with associated 
changes in sea level.  Temperatures have risen throughout the bulk of the past 
century, but no more so than in the past several decades. 
 
 
Warming since 1980 is proceeding at a rate of approximately 7 
degrees Fahrenheit per century in New Jersey.  Eight of New Jersey’s 10 
warmest years since 1895 have occurred since 2010; 19 of the 20 warmest 
since 1990.  Precipitation since 1980 is increasing at a rate of over 1 foot per 
century.  When it rains, it pours; more of our rain is coming in larger events, 
and this has led to an increasing frequency of major fresh-water flooding. 
 
 
Global and regional climates are changing in large measure due 
to increasing atmospheric greenhouse gases that directly and indirectly are 
attributable to the burning of fossil fuels -- be this coal, oil, or natural gas.  
There are other sources of greenhouse gases contributing to change, but the 
major drivers are fossil fuels.  The anthropogenic pollution enhances the 
Earth’s natural greenhouse -- a blanket of gases that make the planet warm 
enough to be habitable.  Increasing the quantity of these gases is akin to 
placing another blanket on a bed.  Solar energy entering the Earth 
atmosphere system is retained for a greater length of time, leading to warmer 
conditions.  It is also worth adding that over 90% of additional anthropogenic 
 
 
 
56 
warmth is being held by the world’s oceans -- an effect that appears to be 
contributing to our coastal state being one of the fastest warming states. 
 
 
New Jersey’s climate will continue to change in upcoming 
decades.  Climate model projections vary due to uncertainty in future 
emissions of warm and greenhouse gases and other variables as well -- and 
also due to differences within the models themselves.  However, all models 
continued to predict warming in our region, and steady or and perhaps 
increasing precipitation. 
 
 
Projections for the next several decades suggest that no matter 
how emission scenarios change, New Jersey will warm in the range of 2 to 5 
degrees Fahrenheit by mid-century.  However, the magnitude of warming in 
the second half of this century will vary, depending on the quantities of 
current and future emissions.  The fewer fossil fuels consumed, the less 
warming.  Additional warming in the second half of the century may be less 
than 1 to 3 degrees Fahrenheit, with reduced greenhouse emissions, but as 
high as an additional 4 to 6 degrees Fahrenheit, with more in the way of 
“business as usual” emissions.  Current and future and near-future actions, or 
a lack thereof, will have significant climate consequences later this century. 
 
 
Challenges are clearly at hand as the ongoing climate crisis is 
addressed.  Changes taking place within New Jersey’s climate system continue 
to be recognized by individuals, agencies, and organizations in a multitude of 
stakeholder communities.  This includes energy; health; agriculture; water 
resource; environment; education; transportation; emergency management; 
insurance, as we heard; and, certainly, the medical side.  A three-pronged 
approach is needed to face these challenges. 
 
 
 
57 
 
 
First, it is imperative that all participants ranging from decision-
makers to the general public achieve a fundamental understanding of the 
climate system and how it is changing, along with appreciation of scenarios 
associated with the impacts of future change -- as a professor; me talking. 
 
 
With all on a more common-knowledge footing, the next 
challenge involves employing mitigative actions to reduce changed threats -- 
in particular, innovative means to reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and 
other greenhouse gases must be explored and implemented.  Society must 
become less reliant on fossil fuels, and more efficient energy consumption is 
a must. 
 
 
Finally, the more that mitigative actions are employed, the 
reduced burden society will face toward adapting to climate-induced changes.  
Without doubt, society will have to continue pursuing efforts to improve 
resilience to threats associated with change.  It is just a matter of how quickly 
and effectively the myriad challenges associated with climate change are 
addressed that will dictate ongoing impacts. 
 
 
Again, I would like to thank Senator Smith, Assemblyman 
DeAngelo, and all on these two committees for offering me the opportunity 
to contribute to this hearing.  I would be happy to follow up with any of you 
as questions arise and temperatures continue to rise in the months and years 
ahead. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Professor. 
 
 
Any questions from the Committee? 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Just one. 
 
 
 
58 
 
 
The--  And, I’m probably putting you on the spot.  You’re 
probably not going to answer, but, best case, worst case, when are--  We’ve 
already seen the massive flooding -- more is coming.  But, in terms of ocean 
rise, with 133 miles of shoreline, best case, worst case? 
 
 
DR. ROBINSON:  By mid-century, best case would be a foot of 
sea level rise; 3 feet is possible, but, that’s probably when we’re looking later 
in the century.  There are a lot of variables involved, we have to--  The oceans 
are warming.  New Jersey--  Well, I should add, New Jersey sea level is rising 
pretty rapidly for a variety of reasons, including the fact that our land is 
settling.  So, we have to factor that in; we have to factor in ocean circulation 
off our coast, and, if that’s weakening, that can actually help raise our seas. 
 
 
The oceans are warming; it’s remarkable how warm they are right 
now, globally.  Last month, the world’s oceans had their warmest month on 
record.  And, I know it’s winter in the northern hemisphere, but it’s not in 
our water-filled southern hemisphere. 
 
 
And, then we have to worry about melting freshwater ice on 
Greenland; glaciers at the Antarctic.  So, there are a lot of variables here. 
 
 
But, I would say, best off, 1 foot of rise by mid-century.  Probably 
worse off in the couple-foot range.  But later this century, there is a 5% 
probability -- a study I was involved with in 2019 out of Rutgers and some 
other universities -- and they consider it about a 5% chance of a 6-foot rise 
by the end of this century. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  I would like to say thank you, but-- 
 
 
DR. ROBINSON:  (laughter) 
 
 
(audience laughter) 
 
 
DR. ROBINSON:  Well, you know, if I can add one thing. 
 
 
 
59 
 
 
I tell the many public lectures I give, we’re smart enough to get 
ourselves into this mess by developing combustion engines and so on, so 
forth. 
 
 
I would like to think there are enough people out there who are 
smart enough to help us deal with this situation through mitigative and, of 
course, we have to deal with some adaptive consequences.  So, there is some 
light out there. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH;  Thank you. 
 
 
DR. ROBINSON:  Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Professor. 
 
 
And, last but not least, Mr. Silverman. 
 
 
Professor. 
A B R A H A M   S I L V E R M A N:  Great; thank you, everyone. 
 
 
Good morning. 
 
 
Thank you to the Chairmans for inviting me to be here today; 
it’s really my pleasure. 
 
 
So, I am actually not a professor.  I am an attorney-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  We’ve got you down as one-- 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  --who works at Columbia University.  I run 
a program called, “The Non-Technical Barriers to the Clean Energy 
Transition Initiative,” which means that I help legislators and Executive 
Branch employees figure out how to make all these things actually work.  So, 
that’s what I’m going to talk about today.  I am really going to start with the 
grid-mod proceeding, and then also talk very briefly about the CES. 
 
 
So, just in terms of my background:  I spent a decade deploying 
capital in energy markets and working, really, across the nation on building 
 
 
 
60 
new power plants and selling retail electricity.  And, then, four years ago, I 
joined the Board of Public Utilities as the General Counsel, and then Senior 
Policy Counsel; however, the comments I give today are purely my own. 
 
 
So, let me go ahead and start with, what is grid modernization?  
I think you all very much are on the right track here, because the grid-mod 
proceeding and the clean-energy standard really go hand in hand.  The 
distribution grid is the backbone of our energy system in New Jersey.  All the 
policies that we talk about,  whether it’s electrification of transportation or 
buildings, depend on getting that distribution investment out there. 
 
 
So, what is grid mod?  We actually, generally, refer to grid mod 
as the process of getting the distribution system ready to meet our clean-
energy needs in the future.  North Carolina State writes a wonderful report 
where they say, “Grid modernization lacks a universally accepted definition, 
but it generally refers to actions making the electric grid system, the electricity 
system, more resilient; more responsive; and interactive.”  And, so, a lot of 
the comments that I’m going to provide today are going to talk about, how 
do we actually get the Board of Public Utilities and/or our utilities out there 
to do this kind of work? 
 
 
Tackling grid expansion needs up front -- I really want to 
emphasize this -- tackling needs up front and having -- allows the utilities to 
make larger upgrades and avoid a bunch of very small upgrades.  Doing it 
that way in a coordinated fashion is faster and significantly less expensive.  
When we were with the Board, we looked at this; we studied it; we’ve made 
public comments talking about this to the PJM.  When you allocate and build 
and plan your distribution or transmission grid up front, costs go down.  
 
 
 
61 
 
 
Further, getting the grid ready in advance results in the faster 
deployment of electrification and distributed energy resources.  It really 
enhances the ability of corporations to attract low-cost capital to deploy in 
New Jersey.  I’m not going to go and talk about a lot about the closed circuits 
that you heard earlier, but, I mean, I think we all recognize that when circuits 
are closed, when businesses can’t locate in New Jersey, our economic health 
suffers considerably.  So, as we think about this investment, we’re not only 
talking about clean energy, but we’re also talking about jobs and economic 
development opportunities. 
 
 
So, let me turn to what topics are covered by an effective grid-
modernization program.  You know, when I think about grid mod, we really 
think about three different types of investment.  First is the expansion of 
traditional utility infrastructure -- what I often refer to as the poles and wire 
solution.  So, a grid mod can look and say, “What do we need in terms of 
additional infrastructure,” and then have the utilities build it. 
 
 
The second is utility deployment of advanced technologies on 
the distribution system that may reduce the need for more poles and wires. 
 
 
And, the third is innovative market signals and regulatory 
frameworks that incentivize utilities and customers to make investments that 
defer additional grid upgrades or make the distribution grid stronger, more 
efficient, including things like (indiscernible) wires alternatives. 
 
 
So, when we think about what you’re really directing the Board 
to do here, you’re telling them to make -- to have the utilities make 
investments across those three different areas; however, we need to be very 
careful to make sure that investment in traditional poles and wires doesn’t 
crowd out investment in technology and market alternatives.  And, I think 
 
 
 
62 
we all understand that utilities make money based on their rate base, and so 
they have a financial incentive to put more money into rate base. 
 
 
We, as regulators -- in my past life as a regulator -- and you all, 
as legislators, obviously want to cabin that discretion, and make sure that 
utilities are putting money into the places that have the best return for 
consumers.  This is particularly true -- and, these incentives are particularly 
there -- when the new investment has some element of operational risk or 
financial risk, because that increases the possibility that the utility can make 
the investment and then have the Board come in and say, “No, those 
investments weren’t (indiscernible).”  So, we need to provide the utilities with 
the certainty they need to make sure that they’re able to recover these 
investments. 
 
 
So, one potential option is to mandate that utilities are required 
to compare the cost of traditional poles and wire solutions against things like 
non-wired alternatives or other technological innovation.  You can require 
that their filings with the Board of Public Utilities; they demonstrate this.   
 
 
In particular, there’s three things that I personally would want to 
see from any utility grid-modernization filing.  One is, are they looking at 
advanced re-conductoring of the distribution lines?  So, re-conductors are just 
a fancy term for the wires that hang between the poles.  And, there is new 
technology out there that can substantially increase the throughput across 
those wires without redoing a lot of the sort of pylons or the telephone poles 
and the other infrastructure.  So, any type of utility plan should look at that 
type of investment as an alternative.  Of course, it’s cheaper for consumers, 
which isn’t necessarily going to make it the default utility proposal.  But, I 
 
 
 
63 
feel like it’s one of those places where we can come in and encourage utilities 
to do that. 
 
 
The second is installation of grid-enhancing technologies, or 
what we often refer to as “GETs,” because of course, in the energy industry, 
we need to turn everything into an acronym.  And, GETs have had a lot of 
discussion at the wholesale level on the transmission grid, but they are coming 
down to the distribution grid, as well.  Again, it’s about getting more; using 
technology to get more out of our existing grid than we currently do. 
 
 
And, the third is enabling non-wires alternatives.  That can be 
energy storage; demand response; energy efficiency; or distributed energy 
resources put in the right places on the grid to alleviate the need for more 
physical hardening or expansion of the poles and wires. 
 
 
Professor Jenkins talked about this briefly, but those types of 
incentives where we actually send price signals to consumers on the grid 
saying, “Hey, this is a good time to consume energy,” or, “this is a bad time 
to consume energy,” those are incredibly important. 
 
 
And, we are talking about doubling the amount of throughput 
on the distribution system over the next decade -- or, sorry, next 30 years.  
And, that is even before we talked about things like the data center demand 
growth that we’re really seeing very quickly.  
 
 
So, how do we do this?  One option is to provide a financial 
incentive to utilities investing in these types of advanced technologies or in 
non-wired alternatives.  And, you can do that by authorizing the Board to 
have a differential rate of return that pays utilities more when they make the 
types of investments we’re looking for.  And, that lessens the sting of going 
with lower-cost alternatives. 
 
 
 
64 
 
 
So, one comment I will share -- one concern I have -- is that the 
short timeline proposed in the legislation may make careful evaluation of 
these types of alternatives to poles and wires difficult.  I’m very concerned 
that if we have a short review time at the Board, that there is a possibility 
that third-party suppliers who may have some of these technologies -- third-
party investors; people looking at non-wires alternatives -- may be very 
constrained to come in and participate in the process if the -- if we have a 
180-day kind of turnaround. 
 
 
So, I am very much in favor of doing this kind of stuff quickly, 
because it is the foundation of everything else we do, but, I do want to caution 
that we want to make sure we have a robust public process and we don’t 
simply default to poles or wires. 
 
 
The last thing I want to talk about is the funding of the clean-
energy transition.  I think we all recognize that increasing the size of the 
distribution system by 2X comes at a significant cost.  So, I was very pleased 
to see that the proposed legislation includes an allocation of general fund.  
 
 
There’s two reasons for that:  One is that there are Federal grant-
matching opportunities that are unlocked by the provision of Federal funds -
- sorry, of general funds, and, of course, free money from the Feds is always 
a very nice way to do this. 
 
 
The second is that they keep doing this at a rate that is -- excuse 
me.  So, supplementing ratepayer funds -- I apologize.  Supplementing 
ratepayer investments with taxpayer funds is an important tool for keeping 
the cost of the clean-energy transition affordable, particularly to low-income 
customers who are going to be the first to feel the financial impacts if we 
continue to raise rates.  So, having that $300 million is able to come in and 
 
 
 
65 
offset some of those costs, and, particularly when you match it with Federal 
funds, it looks very attractive. 
 
 
And, then, finally, I’ll say that making those investments up front 
actually has a real good impact on long-term clean-energy procurement costs.  
One of the things you’ll hear from any solar developer in New Jersey is that 
it’s expensive to do business here, in part because the grid simply isn’t ready.  
As we talk to data-center providers and other entities looking to do building 
electrification and other investments like that, having the grid ready will 
reduce the risk and reduce the cost associated with participating. 
 
 
So, with your indulgence, I’ll just talk very quickly about the 
CES.  I largely agree with what my colleagues have said, but one of the things 
I want to do is point out where we are today.  So, in New Jersey, we currently 
have 40% of our electricity served by nuclear; we have 25% of our electricity 
-- an additional 25% -- served from Class I renewable energy credits.  So, 
we’re already at 65%, just from those two things alone.  The RPS standard is 
scheduled to increase over the next few years to 50%, and, obviously, offshore 
wind and solar investments continue. 
 
 
So, as we think about where we are today, we’re actually well on 
our path to 100%.  And, actually, from an administrative point of view -- 
which of course is where I was thinking about, from the Board -- is relatively 
simple to get there if you increase the unbundled renewable energy credits or 
switch to a clean-energy attribute credit.  They’re effectively the same thing, 
and, that you can get to this 100% standard without endangering system 
reliability. 
 
 
My colleague, Asim Haque, I think, did an excellent job sort of 
talking about this, but I really want to hone in on it.  The PJM grid works 
 
 
 
66 
with Federal regulators and State regulators to maintain reliability of the grid.  
They make sure that they have the right generators under contract in the 
right places to ensure that we have a reliable wholesale grid; nothing we do 
with the clean-energy standard is going to change that.  Reliability remains 
the purview of PJM, and they will continue to go out and contract for the 
same resources that are in the market today to meet those reliability targets. 
 
 
The second thing is I’ll just note that this is -- the clean-energy 
standard under consideration here is well within the mainstream of public 
options being adopted by other states.  Seventeen states now have 100% 
clean energy or renewable energy requirement, and 15 states have moved 
from an RPS structure to a CES -- to a clean-energy standard structure -- 
between 2017 and 2023. 
 
 
So, I won’t go into what the differences are between a clean-
energy standard and a renewable-portfolio standard, other than to say New 
Jersey is really well suited to move to a clean-energy standard structure.  We 
rely on nuclear for such a major part of our energy mix that recognizing the 
carbon-free attributes of nuclear is really powerful here.  It also allows for 
additional competition between advanced nuclear, potentially clean 
hydrogen, and other clean technologies as we move forward.  Because, at the 
end of the day, we really do want to encourage that type of competition across 
technologies. 
 
 
The last thing I will say is that there’s been a lot of questions 
about in-state renewables, and I want to point out that the clean-energy 
standard builds on the existing structure we have, which has a strong 
preference for solar -- in-state solar; for in-state nuclear; and for other in-state 
resources, including offshore wind.  So, as we think about it, really, I often 
 
 
 
67 
think about this as a bucket that we’re filling, and we will start by pouring 
into the bucket our nuclear resources that are in-state, that will top it off with 
solar in-state; offshore wind in-state; and then whatever is left, we will go out 
and procure from outside.  Some of that may be from the state; some of that 
may be out of state.  That’s equivalent to the Class I RECs that we use today. 
 
 
And, as we think about the statute as it’s drafted, it is very 
possible for us to have a preference for, if we’re short of our targets, that 
preference in future contracting can include in-state resources without 
substantially endangering reliability or changing the fundamental structure 
of the program. 
 
 
So, with that I’ll stop. 
 
 
Thank you all very much. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you very much, Abe. 
 
 
And, any questions from the dais? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  I don’t have a question, but I 
have to say something, Mr. Chair. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Sure. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN BARRANCO:  So, first of all, let me just say 
that the testimony of Mr. Jenkins and yours, Mr. Silverman, are--  First of all, 
you’re very well-informed when it comes to a 30,000-foot view of this 
problem.  And, it’s very useful; it’s very helpful. 
 
 
And, as I said earlier, I am in the infrastructure construction 
business, so my view is more of a 50-foot view.  The theory is excellent 
because it’s the basis on which decisions are made with boots on the ground.  
We need to turn that into something real.  So, there’s two things I’m going 
to say. 
 
 
 
68 
 
 
The first one is based on what Mr. Jenkins said about us 
codifying this into law.  And, the reason I wanted to have this particular 
Committee Meeting -- and, I want to share with everyone here -- is it doesn’t 
matter what the legislation codifies if it’s not feasible.  So, I am very glad 
we’re having this conversation; it’s very important. 
 
 
Now, I have made recommendations in the past -- quietly, 
Chairman -- that this problem really does require a taskforce.  A taskforce 
that can take all of these variables -- because, let’s face it, Mr. Silverman, you 
yourself ran through dozens of variables here today.  Not to mention 
economic engineering -- all kinds of things that are influencing the reality of 
this or the non-feasibility of this. 
 
 
You said something very important, Mr. Silverman.  You used the 
word, “throughput,” which is sort of the theoretical word.  But, in our world, 
we call that “ampacity.”  Our grid right now has an ampacity that does not 
support what we want to do, which is what Mr. Silverman was referring to.  
He said we need to double our throughput.  I’m sure that PJM knows what 
that means; that is a gargantuan undertaking.  That is not easy, and we need 
to be very, very smart about what we try to codify. 
 
 
And, that’s all I’m going to say. 
 
 
MR. SILVERMAN:  Yes, I think that’s -- oh, I’m sorry. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Does any other Committee member -- yes, Assemblyman. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
First off, thank you, Chairman DeAngelo, Chairman Smith, for 
making this hearing happen.  This is pretty impressive. 
 
 
 
69 
 
 
My question is mainly to -- a clarification from Professor 
Robinson. 
 
 
Twenty-fifty is stuck in my head; you kept making sure that -- I 
don’t know if that was your goal, but you made it happen. 
 
 
DR. ROBINSON:  Thank you, (indiscernible) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN MARENCO:  You did the job of getting it 
stuck in our heads. 
 
 
But, as we know in science, weathermen have jobs because it’s 
never a solid science; everything is moving.  Superstorm Sandy was a 100-
year event, and we know it happened way before that.  
 
 
How much and how recent are these numbers, and how fast are 
they moving away from 2050, where it’s coming closer instead of further?  
Because we know the arctic is melting; we know all those things are 
happening. 
 
 
So, 2050 right now, a moment in time as of I don’t know how 
long ago, is the number.  But, when does it get revised, and how fast is it 
moving?  I saw your numbers in all your testimony. 
 
 
DR. ROBINSON:  It’s a great question. 
 
 
And, it is a moving target.  And, as scientists, we are probabilistic 
in nature, and that can be very difficult to convey. 
 
 
But, these numbers are recent.  I mean, these are studies done 
within the last five to 10 years.  Climate models continue to evolve; the 
environment continues to evolve.  I mean, let’s be straight up -- no one 
expected the last nine months to be the nine warmest months on Earth in 
recorded, going back to the mid-19th century, by the margin that they have.  
 
 
 
70 
Or, the oceans right now to be about as warm as they normally are in July 
down in the tropics. 
 
 
So, there is always going to be surprises there.  But, this is topical; 
this is -- these are recent numbers.  They’ve come a lot closer together in 
recent years.  You have to remember climate modeling, the advent of it was 
in New Jersey, in part at NOAA Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Lab.  It’s in 
middle age.  I mean, it’s not old age and well-worn.  We’re still developing 
better models. 
 
 
We have better observational systems than ever before.  But, 
what we’re talking about is we’ve got our finger on the pulse of what’s going 
on right now.  But, there are -- excuse me -- there are always going to be 
surprises. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Any other Committee members wish to be heard?  (no response) 
 
 
Panelists, thank you very much for your time. 
 
 
Chairman. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
Our next group will include Mike Maloney from the New Jersey 
Association of Pipe Trades and the representatives of our gas public utilities:  
Larry Barth, Director of Corporate Strategy at NJR; Bob Kettig, Manager of 
Corporate Strategy, NJR; Andrew J. McNally, South Jersey Industries; and 
Dominic Rocco, and then Robert Gibbs of NRG. 
 
 
If you would come forward, please. 
 
 
OK, we do have five. 
 
 
 
71 
 
 
Mike, you -- Mike, you ended up in a prior panel, but Joe 
Checkley, IBEW, already spoke.  But, we figured you would be a good fit with 
the gas utilities, so, Mike, how about if we defer to you. 
M I C H A E L   M A L O N E Y:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman DeAngelo, Chairman Smith, members of 
both committees, for allowing me to come here and testify today. 
 
 
There are pros and cons on this bill so far.  Let me be crystal 
clear:  The New Jersey State Pipe Trades are mostly against this bill. 
 
 
Let me begin with my name is Michael Maloney, I am the 
Business Manager and Financial Secretary of Plumbers Pipefitters Local 9, 
and the President of the New Jersey State Pipe Trades.  I represent 11,000 
members. 
 
 
The New Jersey Association of Pipe Trades in-person with Local 
9 have worked with many of you on critical issues as it relates to ensuring the 
dependability and reliability of New Jersey’s energy grid -- both for its source 
perspective with the likes of zero emission credits not long ago, or, mostly 
recently, with hydrogen as well as infrastructure investments. 
 
 
As we know, New Jersey is the most densely populated state in 
the nation at nearly 1,300 residents per square mile.  That’s not new news, 
but it’s a good reminder.  In 2022 -- again, this is 2022 -- roughly 51.3% of 
the energy generated in New Jersey came from natural gas plants, with 
nuclear power at 43.5%, accounting for much of what remained in the Energy 
Information Administration -- according to the Energy Information 
Administration.  Renewable resources provide about 8% of New Jersey’s total 
in-state electrical generation, most of it from solar energy.  Of that, 8% solar 
energy accounted for 87% of the State’s renewable generation in 2022.  The 
 
 
 
72 
rest of it is produced from biomass with small amounts from wind and 
hydropower.  In large part because of New Jersey’s population density, three 
fourths of the State’s biomass generating capacity is fueled by municipal solid 
waste, and almost the rest is fueled with landfill gas. 
 
 
If I may, let me give you some facts about New Jersey’s gas-
distribution system.  New Jersey has 35,000 miles of underground gas 
infrastructure system that is already built and operating effectively and 
efficiently today.  It has more coverage per square mile than any other state.  
It services nearly 75% of the residents in our state -- the highest natural gas 
customer penetration of any state in the northeast.  Three million residential 
customers; 150,000 commercial customers. 
 
 
We are not sticking our heads in the sand, but when it comes to 
100% electrification, we are not going to sit on the sidelines either.  Policy 
surrounding electrification may work extremely well in environmental circles, 
but for my members, it has two very real outcomes:  The cost of living goes 
way up; the men and women of our union lose their jobs and their livelihoods.  
Thousands upon thousands of them will lose their jobs.  To make matters 
worse, when we lose our jobs--  But, yet, to meet demand at its peak, members 
of this body -- some members of this body -- are prepared to go out of state, 
relying on out-of-state energy sources while my members lose their jobs.  
That’s just wrong. 
 
 
It has been said by many, including Senator Smith, that we in 
the building trades -- and specifically the pipe trades -- are afraid of the 
unknown.  Well, sir, I couldn’t disagree with you more.  I know what’s 
coming:  If you have your way, our members will get fired, and we’re not 
going to sit by and let it happen without a fight. 
 
 
 
73 
 
 
That concludes my report, Mr. Chairman. 
A N D R E W   J.   M c N A L L Y, Esq.:  Good afternoon, Chairman Smith, 
Chairman DeAngelo, and members of the Joint Committee. 
 
 
My name is Andrew McNally, and I am the Senior Director of 
Government and Regulatory Affairs for South Jersey Industries. 
 
 
SJI is the parent company of two natural gas utilities in the state 
-- South Jersey Gas, and Elizabethtown Gas.  Together, our utilities provide 
safe, reliable, affordable gas service to over 725,000 New Jersey customers.  
Statewide, nearly 75% of New Jersey residents rely on gas service for heating 
and cooking -- exceptionally high penetration rate compared to other states.  
SJI also operates various non-utility businesses, including those focused on 
clean energy.  Our commitment to clean energy, however, is not limited to 
discreet subsidiaries, but extends to every aspect of what we do.  In fact, SJI 
has among the most aggressive clean-energy goals in the industry, including 
achieving carbon neutrality -- carbon neutral operations by 2040. 
 
 
I am going to turn a little bit to the electric grid.  As good as it 
is, the electric grid has limitations; from time to time, the power goes out.  A 
majority of the power on our grid today comes from emission-producing 
sources.  And, as we heard from some of the other speakers earlier today, it’s 
not always easy to get new generation sources onto the grid.  And, as a system 
with limitations, we should not expect it to do too much or think that it is 
capable of satisfying all our energy needs. 
 
 
Today, demand for electricity is not just growing -- it is soaring.  
Some of the new demand rises from electric vehicle adoption and 
proliferation of electronic devices.  But, as Chairman DeAngelo pointed out 
before, a lot of this demand is coming from data centers which process critical 
 
 
 
74 
information; operate AI systems; mine for cryptocurrencies; etc.  And, as 
profiled in a March 7 Washington Post article, data centers are driving 
“stratospheric” energy demand, and their power needs far exceed even recent 
projections.  Meeting this incredible demand for power will require major new 
investments 
in 
electric 
generation, 
transmission, 
and 
distribution 
infrastructure. 
 
 
Against this background, some think it’s a good idea to burden 
our electric grid even more by converting natural gas customers to electric 
heat at scale.  Today, demand for electricity is highest in the summer, so our 
grid is designed for a summer peak.  But heating a home with electricity in 
winter can require up to three times the power needed to cool it in the 
summer.  Therefore, to rely on electricity instead of gas for heating at scale, 
we’d need a grid designed for a winter peak.  To accomplish this, we would 
need to generate orders of magnitude more power and build out tremendous 
amounts of new distribution and transmission infrastructure.  Electric grid 
operators, regulators, generators, utilities, and others are all trying to figure 
out how to satisfy a fast-approaching tidal wave of electric demand.  Dealing 
with this challenge is hard enough, but it may be insurmountable if we seek 
to have the electric system also handle energy needs currently met by gas. 
 
 
Therefore, we should continue to invest in our gas system and 
leverage it to meet part of our energy needs.  New Jersey’s gas infrastructure, 
financed by ratepayers, is worth about $17 billion.  The gas system is 
extraordinarily resilient; unplanned gas outages are rare.  SJI’s aggressive 
replacement of older infrastructure with modern plastic pipe has made our 
gas system safer, more efficient, and more environmentally sound.  Modern 
 
 
 
75 
gas infrastructure can also carry fuels like renewable natural gas and 
hydrogen. 
 
 
RNG is sourced from food-waste facilities, sewage-treatment 
plants, and agricultural activities -- all of which produce methane gas that 
ordinarily escapes into the atmosphere, contributing to climate change.  
Instead of allowing this gas to escape, we capture it; clean it; and then use it 
in lieu of geological gas.  RNG is a much lower-carbon fuel and can be carbon 
negative, depending on how it is sourced.  SJI has over 40 RNG projects 
around the country in various stages of development. 
 
 
In New Jersey, we are making a nearly half-billion-dollar 
investment in Linden to construct a food-waste-to-RNG facility.  Once 
operational in the first quarter of 2026, we will be taking in food waste from 
around the region consistent with the food waste law enacted in 2020 and 
championed by Chairman Smith.  The gas will be directly injected into the 
Elizabethtown gas system and will reduce emissions in an amount equivalent 
to saving 30,000 gallons of gasoline per day.  To build the facility and its 
eight anaerobic digestors will employ hundreds of union members from 
various trades.  We are also investing in green hydrogen, a zero-emission fuel 
made using renewables like RNG.  Hydrogen displaces geologic gas and is a 
fuel that can be transported using the modern gas-distribution system.  Later 
this year, South Jersey Gas will activate its first hydrogen project in 
Gloucester County, powered by a 1-megawatt solar facility. 
 
 
Through these clean-energy projects, SJI is helping to make a 
cleaner, brighter future.  Both the gas grid and the electric grid are modern 
marvels and the result of wise policymaking, prudent investment, and the 
hard work of thousands over many generations.  The gas system dramatically 
 
 
 
76 
lightens the load we’ve put on the electric system, which is especially 
important as we enter an era of soaring electric demand.  Therefore, let’s 
continue to make both grids better, cleaner, and more resilient through 
investment and innovation.  If we improve both systems and don’t push 
either beyond its limits, we can help achieve the clean-energy future we all 
want. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, Mr. McNally, one quick question.  And, 
that is, you said that South Jersey Industries is looking to be carbon neutral 
by 2040.  What’s your strategy? 
 
 
MR. McNALLY:  It’s multi-faceted.  Some of it is involving the 
rollout of these new fuels like RNG and hydrogen.  Some of it is either 
electrifying or putting our fleet on compressed natural gas, our fleet of 
vehicles.  Some of it is controlling leaks through aggressive pipeline-
replacement measures. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, I think next is -- is it Mr. Kettig? 
 
 
Or, is it -- it’s Larry-- 
L A R R Y   B A R T H:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Larry Barth. 
 
 
MR. BARTH:  Good to see you; good afternoon. 
 
 
Thank you to the Chairman and members of this committee for 
the opportunity to testify today. 
 
 
I am Larry Barth, Director of Corporate Strategy for New Jersey 
Resources.  I have worked in the energy industry for about 30 years, the last 
15 years focused on clean energy here in New Jersey. 
 
 
 
77 
 
 
I am joined by Bob Kettig, who is the Manager of Corporate 
Strategy at NJR.  Prior to joining NJR, Bob spent over 30 years at the New 
Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.  He was involved in various 
climate-mitigation activities as well as was a co-author of the State’s “80 by 
’50” Global Warming Response Act. 
 
 
NJR is a diversified energy company whose core subsidiaries 
include New Jersey Natural Gas and NJR Clean Energy Ventures.  New Jersey 
Natural Gas is our natural gas utility, serving over 600,000 customers in 
Monmouth, Ocean, Morris, Sussex, and Burlington counties.  NJR Clean 
Energy Ventures is one of the largest clean energy companies in the state, 
operating on solar assets around the state. 
 
 
Today we are going to focus our comments on what you 
requested, which was input on the Clean Energy Standard Bill, as well as the 
Grid Modernization Bill. 
 
 
Let me start with a process-related comment:  S237, which we 
see posted for this Legislative session on the clean-energy standard, appears 
to be the original version that you, Senator Smith, introduced back in August 
of 2022.  It doesn’t comport with the most recent version of the bill that we 
saw circulating around the time of the November ’23 hearings-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, there’s probably an excellent chance 
it won’t look like the finished product. 
 
 
MR. BARTH:  OK. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Work in progress. 
 
 
MR. BARTH:  All right, well--  And, that’s fine. 
 
 
Our comments are generic enough to cover each version of the 
bill.  We want to give you some input on the clean-electricity standard in 
 
 
 
78 
general.  I will be referring, though, to some of the things that were in the 
November version. 
 
 
So, we have a couple specific things to say today.  First of all, as 
it relates to the clean energy standard, we remain concerned this bill is going 
to have potential to export billions of dollars from New Jersey ratepayers to 
subsidize out-of-state jobs without any real reductions in emissions.  So, the 
bill introduces a new clean-energy credit -- a new acronym we can all refer to, 
the CEC -- which can be purchased from any clean-energy resource in PJM 
to comply with the new clean-electricity standard.  The CEC works very 
similar to the Class I RECs which we have now, which are purchased by New 
Jersey from out-of-state renewable energy projects in PJM to comply with our 
state’s renewable-portfolio standard.  And, as the point has been raised 
earlier, that Class I renewable portfolio standard has increased from 21% in 
2020 to 35% in 2025. 
 
 
I do want to raise the awareness of this Committee -- if you’re 
not aware -- is that next year, with that 35% goal, we are probably going to 
be spending about three quarters of a billion dollars purchasing RECs from 
out-of-state projects at current Class I REC prices.  So, our RPS, as it 
continues to grow with no changes based on what’s proposed in this bill, there 
are a lot of dollars that are starting to be impacted here. 
 
 
Now, in addition to the increasing spend, the issue that we want 
to spend some time with you on today is that there’s no clear evidence that 
these out-of-state REC purchases produce any real emissions reductions.  
And, that’s really what we’re after; we’re after real emissions reductions to 
decarbonize the power sector. 
 
 
I’m going to let Bob elaborate on that briefly. 
 
 
 
79 
 
 
Bob. 
R O B E R T   K E T T I G:  Thank you, Chairman, and the entire Committee 
for allowing me to testify here today. 
 
 
We need to recognize that the Class I RECs being purchased 
today can mostly run wind farms in Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Pennsylvania 
-- which are existing projects that were built on an average of 10 years ago.  
These are not new projects; and, therefore, they are not creating incremental 
emissions reductions. 
 
 
We know from--  We know this from DEP’s own greenhouse gas 
reporting, the authority for emissions tracking in the State.  DEP compiles 
the statewide greenhouse gas inventory pursuant to the accounting 
methodology defined in the Global Warming Responses Act.  In that 
inventory, DEP does not count RECs as offsetting real emissions when they 
determine New Jersey’s emissions in the power sector.  The impact of any 
PJM-cited renewables is already accounted for in the electricity that New 
Jersey imports from PJM.  In their latest report on emissions -- the 2021 
reporting year -- DEP indicates power-sector emissions are going up, not 
down -- a total of 19 million metric tons driven by increased electricity 
imports from other PJM states.  In aggregate, less than 40% of New Jersey’s 
emissions is carbon-free, with close to 90% of that coming from nuclear 
power. 
 
 
The claim in the bill that the power sector in New Jersey is 75% 
emissions free is factually incorrect, and, with the potential to mislead, that 
much of our work is already accomplished.  Before we introduce another 
clean-energy credit, the CEAC, we should learn from the Class I REC 
 
 
 
80 
experience and make improvements to ensure that the purchases result in 
tangible, incremental, real emission reductions. 
 
 
In short, we must ensure that the standards have additionality    
-- a commonly used term in environmental markets around the world, and 
which includes the following key components: 
 
 
First, the sources designated to supply clean energy to New Jersey 
must come from dedicated, newly constructed clean-energy generation.  
Second, New Jersey funds the capital cost of the designated resource 
associated with the clean electricity it imports.  And, third, out-of-state clean-
energy generation is counted as zero emissions only if two criteria are met:  
The clean energy resource designated to supply energy to New Jersey are 
simultaneously producing those megawatt hours in PJM, and, if in that hour 
of production, New Jersey has the available transmission capacity. 
 
 
These criteria that I discuss are consistent with how the emission 
reductions from out-of-state renewables are counted towards in New Jersey’s 
emission-reduction goal when we did the energy master plan.  It is also 
consistent with the standards adopted by the IRS to ensure that electricity 
used to produce green hydrogen comes from actual renewable sources. 
 
 
With that, I’ll turn it back to Larry. 
 
 
MR. BARTH:  So, in addition to a higher standard of integrity 
to make sure that the purchases that we’re making of out-of-state credits are 
resulting in real emissions, we also feel it’s important for this clean-energy 
standard bill to prioritize in-state resources and with a firm megawatt 
commitment to in-state solar. 
 
 
We recognize this topic attracted a lot of attention in the last 
hearing, but it is important.  Unlike out-of-state RECs, in-state renewables 
 
 
 
81 
do produce real emissions reductions.  And, rather than sending dollars out 
of state, let’s keep our state dollars -- scarce dollars -- here to support green 
jobs and economic development. 
 
 
If you look at National Renewable Energy Labs jobs and 
economic development model, if we build a gigawatt of solar each year, that’s 
going to produce nearly about two and a half billion in direct economic spend, 
and an equivalent amount in the multiplier effect from the way the dollars 
will continue to circulate in our economy.  Plus, for once, we are pulling in 
money from the Federal government in the form of tax credits that reduces 
the burdens on New Jersey ratepayers to fund clean-energy projects, and not 
sending dollars out.  Let’s capitalize on that now so that we can build these 
projects in state at lower cost. 
 
 
The good news is that if we meet the goals of the energy master 
plan now for in-state solar, we can--  This is totally compatible with a clean-
energy standard.  We can build the offshore wind we want to build; we can 
keep the nuclear running; and we can meet the 100% standard with in-state 
resources by 2035. 
 
 
We are confident that working with our partners in the BPU, the 
solar industry can be scaled to deliver the numbers that we need to deliver. 
 
 
In closing, on the topic of grid modernization and system 
planning, Chairman DeAngelo asked a question, “Can we handle it?”  And, I 
think a number of folks have discussed that today.  One of the things we feel 
is a missing piece right now in New Jersey’s energy planning is an 
understanding of the magnitude of the scale and the cost of upgrades needed 
to the electric-distribution system in order to meet our goals in 2050. 
 
 
 
82 
 
 
We’ve heard today a number of people citing that our 
throughput may double.  Well, actually, if you look at the energy master plan 
modeling, we’ve got to go from 20 gigawatts of in-state electric generation 
capacity to 70 to 80 -- that’s a quadrupling.  So, when everybody is turning 
on their heat in January of 2050, we have to have an electric transmission 
and distribution system that can meet that instantaneous load.  And, we need 
more work to understand what that really is going to take and what it’s going 
to cost.  And, grid modernization, we think, is part of that discussion. 
 
 
So, we look to--  We were encouraged to see Chairman Smith 
has pre-filed the bill, S236, which requires integrated distribution plans be 
submitted by the utilities and would recommend that the grid-modernization 
legislation be considered within that broader context.  And, we also feel that 
integrated distribution plans will provide frameworks for joint gas- and 
electric-system planning.  This is important because we can provide 
transparency into how the gas and electric system can work together to make 
system-wide decarbonization a reality without compromising reliability. 
 
 
And, similarly, gas utilities would like to be able to step up and 
show how we can support programs that leverage our infrastructure to 
improve their reliability and resiliency of the electric system. 
 
 
And, with that, thank you for the opportunity to testify today. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you as well. 
 
 
Robert Gibbs -- NRG. 
R O B E R T   G I B B S:  Thank you, Chairman -- both of you, and members 
of the Committees; thanks for the time today. 
 
 
My name is Robert Gibbs, and I am the Director of Government 
Affairs for NRG Energy. 
 
 
 
83 
 
 
NRG is the leading essential home services company governed 
by its customer-focused strategy, strong balance sheet, and comprehensive 
sustainability framework.  A Fortune 500 company, NRG brings the power 
of energy to millions of North Americans.  In New Jersey, we have 10 retail 
brands that serve retail customers.  And, I should also note that NRG operates 
roughly 16,000 megawatts of generation across the country, so, we have a 
very broad breadth of experience here. 
 
 
NRG supports New Jersey’s efforts to decarbonize the energy 
sector, grounded -- provided those efforts are primarily driven through one, 
technology-neutral market mechanisms that support grid reliability; and, two, 
consumer choice principles that consider affordability. 
 
 
S237 and A1480 don’t quite match these important principles, 
and I’ll tell you why.  These bills essentially create a less flexible government 
mandate of how and when decarbonization can take place.  NRG appreciates 
Chairman Smith’s utilization of a renewable-energy trading program, as 
contemplated in the bills.  We believe this can be further enhanced by 
ensuring such a program is based on competitive market principles to achieve 
the State’s goals. 
 
 
We note that several State utility regulatory commissions, 
including New Jersey Board of Public Utilities, are exploring a market 
mechanism to achieve these exact goals.  As you consider the State’s 
decarbonization goals, we encourage you to ensure that such an approach 
allows third-party suppliers like NRG and our customers to choose their 
method of RPS compliance.  This can include utilization of a coordinated 
regional auction where state policy preferences are reflected.  Such a 
mechanism allows us and our customers to engage in self-directed 
 
 
 
84 
participation which preserves customer choice, which generally -- while 
generally respecting each participating state’s policy preference.  If you tell 
customers that they can only achieve RPS compliance through X percent 
nuclear, Y percent of offshore wind, and Z percent of solar, you’re limiting 
their options despite their ability of a combination of these technologies to 
meet the State’s goals by asking the market to meet the policy preferences.  
With a broader suite of clean technologies and a platform that anybody can 
buy from, you allow customers to choose their path to decarbonization that 
best meets their needs and price tolerance while still achieving the State’s 
overall clean-energy goals. 
 
 
Let me just into the grid-modernization bill real quickly.  Any 
taxpayers and ratepayer subsidization of public utility -- of grid 
modernization -- should incorporate the following policy objectives: 
 
 
One, establish an opt-out time-of-use rate for the basic 
generation service.  In practice, public utility opt-in time-of-use rates 
generally do not generate high participation rates.  A default time-of-use rate 
is something that PSE&G already has experience with, and the service it 
provides to the Long Island Power Authority, which adopted an opt-out 
default time-of-use rate.  These rates provide a foundation for demand 
flexibility and load shaping, while being essential to reduce the costs of a grid 
that relies more on intermittent supply staff.  At the same time, New Jersey 
customers would continue to be able to opt in to flat-rate plans by shopping 
with a TPS for a different time-of-use rate offered by third-party suppliers. 
 
 
We encourage the Legislature to also encourage the Board of 
Public Utilities to complete its data access proceeding, which is currently 
ongoing.  That is a critical piece of a smart grid; it is enabling your customers 
 
 
 
85 
-- your consumers -- to share their data with whoever they choose to.  Again, 
consent is important here, so that firms like us or the utilities can look at that 
load shaping and come up with innovative products and services that 
customers will use.  We’re talking about behavioral changes here.  That’s key 
to the energy transition -- not just letting people continue to do what they’ve 
been doing for the last several decades, but encouraging them to look at how 
they use energy, and to use it more wisely. 
 
 
And, finally, we encourage the Legislature to allow third-party 
suppliers to use and compensate customers for virtual power plants.  I know 
that sounds like a new concept.  In Texas, NRG is rolling out a virtual power 
plant concept and plan.  Basically what it is is aggregated load through our 
customers, we’re able to control--  It’s like a second demand-response 
program.  We’re able to control their power usage during times of high stress 
on the grid, and peak (indiscernible) and reduce that stress.  Right now in 
New Jersey, we’re not able to offer those types of programs since it’s not in 
sort of the regulatory framework.  And, so one of the things we would like to 
talk to the Legislature about is how to include third-party suppliers and our 
customers -- which are a fairly significant load here in New Jersey -- on how 
to participate and get compensated for that load sharing. 
 
 
So, with that, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.  
I am happy to take questions, and we look forward to working with the 
Legislature and the front office on this. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Thank you for all of your comments. 
 
 
Any questions from members?  (no response) 
 
 
Chairman, take it away. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, gentlemen. 
 
 
 
86 
 
 
Next up, Panel 5, we’re going to bring in -- if I can -- Anjuli 
Ramos from the Sierra Club; Ed Potosnak, League of Conservation Voters; 
and Robert Routh from NRDC. 
 
 
Good morning. 
 
 
If you could just start left to right, and say your name for the 
record. 
R O B E R T   R O U T H:  Robert Routh, Pennsylvania Policy Director for 
NRDC, the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman Smith, Chairman DeAngelo, honorable 
members of the Senate Environment and Energy Committee and Assembly 
Telecommunications and Utilities Committee.  Thank you for the 
opportunity to testify today. 
 
 
As I said, my name is Robert Routh, Pennsylvania Policy 
Director for NRDC.  NRDC is an international environmental nonprofit that 
works to safeguard the Earth; its people; its plants and animals; and the 
natural systems on which all life depends. 
 
 
Since 1970, NRDC’s lawyers, scientists, and environmental 
specialists have worked on clean-energy policies in dozens of states and at the 
Federal level. 
 
 
So, I come before you from across the Delaware because I am 
filling in for Eric Miller, my New Jersey counterpart, who could not be here 
today because it is his first official day in his new role with the Murphy 
administration.  Eric will be serving as the new Director of Governor 
Murphy’s Office of Climate Action and Counsel on the Green Economy. 
 
 
As we have for the past several years, NRDC strongly supports 
S237 and the establishment of a technology-neutral clean-electricity standard 
 
 
 
87 
that will achieve the goal of 100% clean electricity in the state by 2035.  
Establishing this standard is one of the most important steps that New Jersey 
can take to combat the climate crisis and decrease air pollution that harms 
the well-being of this state’s residents. 
 
 
This legislation is critical because, not only will it reduce 
emissions from our power sector, it will also provide clean electricity to 
decarbonize our buildings and vehicles as well. 
 
 
So, I am led to understand that the bill before the joint 
committees today is a work in progress.  There is also the more comprehensive 
legislation that has been introduced since last session.  NRDC remains 
confident in our position that this bill would make New Jersey a clean-energy 
powerhouse; create thousands of new in-state jobs; provide a guaranteed 
pathway to reduce emissions in overburdened communities; and ensure 
affordability for New Jersey ratepayers.  The version of the bill that we have 
seen introduced, if differing from the more comprehensive legislation from 
last session, would still be a significant step in the right direction and provide 
many of the benefits to New Jersey that last session’s bill did.  Let me go 
through a few of them. 
 
 
First, it would enshrine into law a 100% by 2035 standard,  
which, by itself, is critically important.  This will steadily reduce carbon 
dioxide emissions and co-pollutants over the next decade and beyond, and it 
will ensure that the electricity that powers New Jersey homes and, 
increasingly, New Jersey’s vehicles, is clean. 
 
 
Second, this legislation will increase economic development and 
grow the number of in-state clean-energy jobs.  According to a 2023 report 
by Environmental Entrepreneurs -- or, E2, which has been included with my 
 
 
 
88 
testimony here today -- New Jersey is the fourth-fastest growing state for 
clean-energy jobs.  The growth of the clean-energy sector is outpacing the rest 
of the New Jersey economy by 36%, and three out of five new energy jobs in 
this state are in the clean-energy sector.  This didn’t happen by accident; it’s 
the result of smart policy like the Clean Energy Act of 2018, which 
established New Jersey’s current renewable portfolio standard of 50% by 
2030.  The clean-electricity standard established by this bill would obviously 
take us even further. 
 
 
Third, this bill adopts a strong standard for what would count as 
clean energy.  The inclusion of co-pollutants in the definition would be an 
important step to ensure that low carbon or carbon-free resources that are 
nonetheless capable of producing other pollutants that harm human health 
would not receive credits under this standard.  This would make New Jersey 
a national leader in reducing co-pollutants alongside the greenhouse gas 
emissions that are driving the climate crisis. 
 
 
And, then, fourth, this legislation would be technology neutral.  
A technology-neutral standard allows New Jersey to achieve its targets by 
leveraging technologically and geographically diverse resources.  It leaves 
room for innovation by project developers, and it would drive toward more 
competitive projects, thereby ensuring that electric rates are more affordable. 
 
 
And, finally, a technology-neutral standard provides more 
flexibility and resiliency to achieve New Jersey’s targets.  No single type of 
project or resource would cause New Jersey to miss its targets under this bill. 
 
 
So, these conclusions are supported by NRDC’s own modeling 
on a 100% CES target -- again, copy which is included alongside my written 
testimony.  Our Director of Policy Analysis looked at this legislation and the 
 
 
 
89 
significant impacts of the Federal IRA, finding that -- I’ll just summarize -- a 
100% clean-electricity target can be met through a diverse set of resources 
and will steadily decrease not just carbon dioxide, but co-pollutant emissions 
over the next decade.  Our current RPS target of 50% by 2030 and New 
Jersey’s nuclear fleet positioned this state well to achieve 100% target with 
additional policy signals, like in this legislation, would keep existing gas and 
nuclear fleets online to retain both reliability and affordability, increasing our 
state’s -- our total in-state generation.  And, the legislation would reduce New 
Jersey’s reliance on both total electricity imports and out-of-state clean energy 
to meet the RPS and new CES targets. 
 
 
By every single measure, New Jersey would be better off with a 
CES like the one contained in this bill than without it.  For that reason, 
NRDC urges the Committee to advance this legislation in its next voting 
session. 
 
 
So, to close out, NRDC was proud to be one of the many 
stakeholders that worked on last session’s bill, and we are keenly aware that 
numerous stakeholders work in good faith to design a bill that would be 
perfect for New Jersey.  That said, New Jersey has apparently been discussing 
a 100% by 2035 bill for years at this point, and we cannot let the pursuit of 
a perfect bill prevent us from acting on the opportunity before New Jersey 
now to equitably reduce emissions and increase the share of clean electricity 
generation in New Jersey. 
 
 
NRDC and our team remains committed to working in good 
faith with the Legislature, the Board of Public Utilities, the Governor’s Office, 
and all interested stakeholders on this critical topic moving forward. 
 
 
 
90 
 
 
So, thank you again for the opportunity to testify, and I’ll be 
happy to take any questions Committee members may have. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Robert. 
 
 
Anjuli. 
A N J U L I   R A M O S - B U S O T:  Good afternoon. 
 
 
Chairman Smith, Chairman DeAngelo, and members of the 
Senate 
Energy 
and 
Environment 
Committee 
and 
Assembly 
Telecommunications and Utilities Committee, thank you for the opportunity 
to testify today at this joint hearing. 
 
 
My name is Anjuli Ramos, and I serve as the New Jersey Sierra 
Club Director. 
 
 
Today, I am speaking on behalf of over 100,000 members and 
supporters here in New Jersey and 3.8 million nationwide that, above all, are 
eager for and demand a future where we no longer rely on fossil fuels.  Sierra 
Club strongly supports a clean-energy standard with the goal of 100% clean 
electricity by 2035, and the modernization of our grid. 
 
 
We would like to start by sharing that, right outside the 
statehouse, just before this hearing, numerous environmental community, 
environmental justice, and labor organizations -- including us, New Jersey 
Sierra Club -- and the public rallied together in support of a clean-energy 
future that tackles climate change and pollution head on. 
 
 
The CES lays the groundwork for a robust clean-energy economy 
powered by renewable and clean energy, primarily built right here in New 
Jersey.  As we all know, New Jersey is on track to achieve 75% of its annual 
energy usage by 2025, and 84% by 2030 through renewable and nuclear 
energy.  However, the current renewable generated electricity consumed by 
 
 
 
91 
the State comes mostly from out of state.  And, it is crucial to keep in mind 
that there is nothing in the current law that ensures the continued build-out 
of large-scale renewable-energy or clean-firm power plants in New Jersey. 
 
 
Therefore, establishing a clean-energy standard for 2035 ensures 
that New Jersey is investing in large-scale renewables and clean-energy 
projects such as solar, offshore wind, and storage today in order to power our 
homes and vehicles tomorrow.  By 2035, a CES is projected to help build 
8,300 megawatts of new large-scale solar; 7,500 megawatts of offshore wind; 
and 1,600 megawatts of storage capacity.  The remaining zero-carbon 
resources would be from low-cost renewable energy competitively procured 
from across the PJM, keeping prices affordable. 
 
 
It is essential for New Jersey to enact in statute its policy vision 
of 100% clean electricity by 2035, as it would have massive positive 
economic, job, and health impacts for the state.  As stated before, we 
currently are a net electricity importer, and the majority of that electricity 
comes from intense extractive processes like coal mining and fracking, and 
generated through the burning of coal and natural gas from states in the PJM 
regional grid like Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia.  Unfortunately, 
New Jersey is directly downwind from these states, and the pollution from all 
of these processes lands right here in our beaches, backyards, and 
playgrounds.  Pollution does not obey state lines.  Often, it is downwind 
pollution itself makes the state reach unhealthy and hazardous air, and sets 
off air-quality alerts.  And, it is one of the main reasons as to why New Jersey 
is currently in non-attainment status for the Federally designated ambient air 
quality standard for ground-level ozone. 
 
 
 
92 
 
 
Now, you may be wondering, “What do I mean by pollution?”  
That’s such a broad term.  The main objective of the clean-energy standard 
is to move us away from the burning of carbon so that we directly tackle 
climate change and its impacts.  However, it is significantly important to 
know that it is not the emissions of carbon dioxide -- or even methane -- that 
makes us sick.  It is the associated pollution that comes from all these 
processes, which we often refer to as “co-pollutants” or “air toxics.”  Some of 
the most potent ones are nitrous oxide -- or, NOX; sulfar oxides, or SOX; 
particulate matter; ground-level ozone; volatile organic compounds; benzine; 
and hydrogen sulfide; and the list goes on and on. 
 
 
The burning of carbon generates much more than just electricity, 
which is why it is imperative to include the associated pollution in the CES.  
Carbon and co-pollutant emissions are interconnected, and therefore must be 
jointly phased out.  Sierra Club strongly supports the inclusion of co-
pollutants in the clean-energy definition because of the stated before, and so 
that the technology innovation that will be triggered to achieve this goal is 
both carbon and co-pollutant free. 
 
 
The achievement of 100% clean electricity by 2035 can directly 
displace coal, gas, and fossil fuel reliance from our regional grid; cleans our 
air; and bring relief to people who suffer from asthma, heart disease, and 
other medical conditions directly associated with the burning of fossil fuels.  
Additionally, a CES can dramatically reduce emissions across every sector of 
the economy, further creating a future with cleaner air and healthier 
communities.  The fossil fuels we burn in our vehicles and buildings make up 
the top two sources of emissions in New Jersey.  Not only can we lower 
emissions from these sectors in the short term by upgrading our homes and 
 
 
 
93 
vehicles to electricity, but achieve even further reductions by ensuring our 
cars and homes are powered by clean, renewable energy. 
 
 
I would like to switch gears a bit now and focus on the powerful 
potential for economic and job growth for the State.  New Jersey is already a 
leader in clean-energy jobs with the clean-energy sector growing 2.5 times 
faster than the state economy.  As pointed out by my colleague, a new report 
by Environmental Entrepreneurs -- which is incredible, I advise everybody to 
read -- shows that New Jersey is the fourth fastest-growing state for clean-
energy jobs in the country with 56,000 jobs accounted for in 2022 -- 
specifically jobs in battery storage and grid modernization.  And, grid 
modernization grew 8.5% in 2022, and has grown more than 15% since 
2021.  With the CES and historical investments in grid modernization, New 
Jersey will create tens of thousands of new family-sustaining in-state jobs in 
the next decade for roles inclusive of building, operating, and maintaining 
lighter electricity generators -- and additional thousands of other jobs in large-
scale solar and offshore wind, while preserving our nuclear and gas fleets for 
reliability purposes. 
 
 
Lastly, a number of leading organizations have looked at what 
the transition to clean energy is going to cost, and they all have reached the 
same conclusion:  Energy bills do not go up, particularly given the once-in-a-
lifetime opportunity of clean-energy incentives provided by the Inflation 
Reduction Act.  New Jersey is said to receive massive Federal investments 
from the Inflation Reduction Act to help affordably upgrade our electric grid 
and deploy large-scale renewable-energy resources.  Thanks to these 
investments and the leveraging of low-cost renewables, New Jersey can 
 
 
 
94 
achieve a 100% clean grid at a deep discount, making the State’s carbon-free 
electricity goals cheaper to achieve on a faster timeline. 
 
 
The time to act is now.  New Jersey can set the tone for the nation 
with a protective full commitment for 100% clean electricity by 2035, while 
providing economic and job growth; healthier air to breathe; and curbing the 
devastating impacts of climate change. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you. 
 
 
Ladies and gentleman, what I am going to ask--  We are about 
three hours into this hearing.  We’re starting to hit the repetitiveness, so, if 
you were planning -- one of the 15 individuals coming up to testify -- please 
try to be aware of the testimony that was earlier on today.  Because, I’ve 
heard very repetitiveness in the past couple speeches.  I get it; I understand 
it; we’re just trying to make sure everybody gets an opportunity to be heard, 
as we have 15 more people and we are halfway through. 
 
 
Ed, the pressure is on you not to repeat. 
E D W A R D   P O T O S N A K   III:  No worries. 
 
 
Actually, it’s interesting you say that.  My opening remarks said, 
“Good morning,” so I will say:  Good afternoon, and thank you for your 
patience to the many Chairs and members of the Committee that we have 
here today. 
 
 
Ed Potosnak, New Jersey League of Conservation Voters -- 
Executive Director. 
 
 
I am here today to speak about the 100% clean-energy bill and 
grid modernization, the amendments that Jesse Jenkins talked about; but also 
 
 
 
95 
a strong definition of clean energy to make sure that we are reducing those 
co-pollutants that my colleagues have spoken about. 
 
 
To put it clearly, the 100% clean-energy bill will save lives.  It is 
going to make sure we have cleaner air, which saves lives.  It’s going to make 
sure we have cleaner water; that’s going to save lives.  We’re going to have 
less catastrophic storms; that’s going to save lives.  New Jersey LCV, our 
organization, is the statewide political voice for the environment.  We elect 
environmentally responsible candidates and hold our elected officials 
accountable for policies that support and safeguard the health of our 
communities, the beauty of our state -- which we also much love -- and the 
strength of our economy. 
 
 
In the past year, we’ve seen wildfires rage across America; we saw 
wildfires as far as Canada make their way into our air.  And, that is what 
climate change looks like.  These things are apocalyptic, but they are 
happening at a more frequent, intense--  And, my neighbor, Robin Suydam, 
talked about that from the insurance industry’s perspective.  We’ve seen 
record heat passing, yet again, the hottest year on record in 2023, which is 
bad news for those of us who like to ski.  It’s getting harder to get out on the 
slopes.  That is also an economic impact, as much as a joy that we miss. 
 
 
We’ve seen millions of dollars in damage due to flooding.  Just a 
few weeks ago, we saw catastrophic flooding across the Garden State.  This 
past weekend -- right now -- we’re seeing huge winds and flooding.  I mean, 
the hydrometer near me is off the charts.  This past year alone was just a 
snapshot, but you can look back to Superstorm Sandy; Ida -- my neighbor is 
still out of their home from Hurricane Ida, just down the block from me.  
New Jerseyans are losing their homes; their possessions; their businesses; their 
 
 
 
96 
loved ones, due to flooding, fires, and storms.  Climate change is no longer 
that far off a problem that people talked about.  It’s here today.  It’s hitting 
in our lives, our health, and our pockets. 
 
 
And, I just want to thank Senator Smith and Chairman 
DeAngelo for your tenacious efforts to move forward a leading legislation to 
get us to 100% clean energy -- renewable energy -- by 2035.  Not only will it 
help to combat climate change, which many folks have described, but it’s 
going to create good local, family-sustaining jobs, and improve public health 
and reduce pollution and address flooding. 
 
 
And, I said it before, I’m saying it again:  It will save lives, this 
100% clean-energy legislation.  And, it may not seem so far away, 2035, but 
we’re already on track to achieve this goal.  The 2018 clean renewable energy 
bill and the nuclear subsidy law -- thank you, Chairman DeAngelo for your 
support for that -- puts us anywhere from 75% to 84% of the way there, 
leaving us just about 15% more to go -- that’s what we’re really here to talk 
about today.  And, those Class I renewable energy credits for 50% are solar 
and wind -- the cleanest energy that we can make, each year increasing about 
6%. 
 
 
Folks also mentioned -- I’ll just reinforce; not to be repetitive, but 
I think it’s important-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  You are being repetitive. 
 
 
MR. POTOSNAK:  It happens if you go a little bit later, but-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  You’re good-- 
 
 
MR. POTOSNAK:  --my mom always said -- and, I was a teacher 
-- you’ve got to repeat things a few times. 
 
 
 
97 
 
 
But the Inflation Reduction Act -- a huge investment in money 
on the line for the State of New Jersey.  This is a huge moment, and I don’t 
know if folks emphasize that enough-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  So, I will say this:  I will be 
mindful of the term, “talk the starving dog off a meat wagon.”  When you 
have a committee up here looking to go in that direction, and you say it too 
much, we pull ourselves off. 
 
 
Thank you, Ed. 
 
 
MR. POTOSNAK:  No, I appreciate that. 
 
 
And, I think it’s important-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  He still doesn’t take the hint. 
 
 
MS. RAMOS-BUSOT:  (laughter) 
 
 
MR. POTOSNAK:  No, it does. 
 
 
I’m going to say something that I think that’s been-- 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thirty seconds, please-- 
 
 
MR. POTOSNAK:  --which is, I don’t think that we should wait.  
I know it’s something that was talked about here.  New Jersey has been a 
leader in a number of things. 
 
 
In fact, on November 20 in 1789, New Jersey was the first state 
to ratify the Bill of Rights.  No one talked about that today.  In addition, 
New Jersey was the first state to mandate recycling.  New Jersey was the first 
state to mandate climate-change education.  New Jersey was the first state to 
hold gun traffickers criminally liable. 
 
 
And, I think, in the words of another leader, “If not us, then 
who?  And if not now, when?”  And, that was John Lewis.  And, I think that, 
in addition to saving lives, the 100% legislation will also do a lot for our state 
 
 
 
98 
to raise the bar for other states across the nation.  And, that’s something I 
think that’s critical, in addition to the jobs.   
 
 
In Elizabeth, New Jersey, four people lost their lives in Hurricane 
Ida.  All four of them were low-income; all four had limited mobility or were 
on the first floor and were literally drowned in their homes.  So, this is a life-
or-death situation, and it requires us to act and to push the system.  It’s not 
going to be comfortable, just like it wasn’t comfortable for the folks who 
drowned. 
 
 
And, I am saying that from the bottom of my heart as not only 
an environmental activist, but a lifelong New Jerseyan.  I appreciate your 
attention and patience. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
Panel is dismissed. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, let us call panel Number 6. 
 
 
MR. POTOSNAK:  I thought we were going to get questions. 
 
 
MS. RAMOS-BUSOT:  Yes, where are the questions? 
 
 
These are--  Oh, there were questions? 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  You already repeated them all, 
so we’re good.  We (indiscernible) 
 
 
MR. POTOSNAK:  (laughter) I’m just-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  OK, so, panel Number 6 are the 
environmental justice groups.  We have Brooke Helmick, the Law and Policy 
Manager of the New Jersey Environmental Justice Alliance; we have JV 
Valladolid, Environmental Justice Organizer, Ironbound Community 
Corporation; Sharonda Allen, NJPEEC -- Executive Director of Operation 
 
 
 
99 
Grow; and, Jessamine De Ocampo, Associate Attorney, Clean Energy 
Program, Earth Justice. 
 
 
Why don’t we start on this side and we’ll go this way. 
 
 
Take it away. 
J E S S I C A   V A L L A D O L I D:  Hi, can folks hear me? 
 
 
I was actually going to end.  I know I probably can’t decide that 
on my own-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  It’s OK, (indiscernible) we’re easy to get 
along with. 
 
 
And, if you would start. 
S H A R O N D A   A L L E N:  Is this thing on? 
(laughter) 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes 
MS. ALLEN:  Good afternoon. 
 
 
Thank you, Chairman Smith and Chairman DeAngelo for 
bringing S237 and A1484 today. 
 
 
My name is Sharonda Allen, Founder and Executive Director of 
Operation Grow, Inc.; Chapter Co-Chair of the Greater New Jersey Gateway 
Climate Reality Project; Tri-County Sustainability EJ Co-Chair; and, Steering 
Committee Member of the New Jersey Progressive Equitable Energy 
Coalition -- or NJPEEC -- chaired by Mr. Marcus Sibley, which is a Black and 
brown-led coalition advocating for a 100% clean-energy transition that keeps 
energy affordable and accessible to all New Jersey families. 
 
 
It is an honor to be here today speaking about the importance of 
clean renewable-energy access to New Jersey communities, and the most 
monumental clean-energy bills New Jersey has seen to date.  NJPEEC works 
 
 
 
100 
to bridge the equitable gap in energy justice to ensure inclusivity from the 
inception to implementation of policies and proposed energy reforms.  We 
engage stakeholders to help them understand the impact, sense of urgency, 
and landscape of proposed policies on local communities statewide, and we 
advocate to bring good-paying, clean-energy jobs to our home state of New 
Jersey while keeping energy prices affordable. 
 
 
We stand here with and because of the many advocates who have 
begun carving an equitable, clean-energy future for our loved ones.  We 
acknowledge the work that has been accomplished, and in partnership, we 
join advocates in organizations in the fight. 
 
 
When we consider the major strides in society, too often 
weathering conversations, policies, and implementation, we do not take 
enough consideration of Black and brown low-income or other historically 
marginalized community members.  But, we can do better -- we must do better 
in our clean-energy transition.  We can do better by ensuring that as we 
transition to cleaner, better energy sources, local residents in need of decent 
work have equitable access to workforce development, apprenticeships, and 
other good-paying job opportunities.  We can do better to protect 
communities overburdened by air pollution from harmful facilities by 
creating strong definitions of what clean energy truly is and means.  We can 
do better to ensure that people and their paychecks, not corporations and 
their profits, are protected from the hardship of significant energy price 
increases or fluctuations. 
 
 
Due to historic policies and practices such as redlining, polluting 
facilities are disproportionately located in low-income and communities of 
color, often considered sacrifice zones, that allow other areas to utilize energy 
 
 
 
101 
without the burden of pollution.  However, we must name these facilities and 
begin dismantling the harmful results borne from these practices.  Trash 
incinerators, one of many energy-generating facilities that releases toxic 
fumes that harm human health, receives renewable energy credit -- I’m trying 
to talk fast.  This is in the name of turning trash into treasure; where we 
treasure energy over the health and well-being of specifically Black and brown 
or low-wealth community members.  We do not accept this; we cannot accept 
this.  Incineration is not clean. 
 
 
(audience applause) 
 
 
MS ALLEN: Thank you. 
 
 
It is important to lay out a plan to get New Jersey to 100% 
renewable energy while avoiding dirty fossil fuel sources.  We need a strong 
plan that only allows real renewable energy to earn incentives and 
classifications as renewable.  Any energy that involves transfer or use of 
methane should be avoided.  With a burgeoning offshore wind industry on 
the eastern coast of the United States, it is imperative for New Jersey to open 
its doors for employment, sustainability, and equity that will create a smooth 
energy transition.  Equity that will reduce pollution and cost, bringing 
environmental and energy justice to our state. 
 
 
We want the State of New Jersey in the forefront of renewable 
energy, and we must have legislation that supports the growth of our 
economy.  There is an entire ecosystem of careers that will spring from 
developing clean, green energy, while mitigating adverse health conditions for 
all New Jerseyans -- especially the most vulnerable residents of our state.  We 
deserve a healthier environment for all New Jerseyans. 
 
 
(audience applause) 
 
 
 
102 
J E S S A M I N E   D e  O C A M P O, J.D.:  Hello, my name is Jessamine 
De Ocampo, and I am an attorney with Earthjustice. 
 
 
Earthjustice is a nationwide environmental law and nonprofit, 
and we are here to uplift the concerns environmental justice organizations 
and leaders have made today. 
 
 
I would like to start by thanking Chair Smith and Chair 
DeAngelo for the opportunity to provide verbal testimony, and we appreciate 
all the individuals in this room who are working to consider all perspectives 
on this bill. 
 
 
The State has an opportunity to ensure policy outcomes are 
aligned with the State’s fiscal resources by defining clean energy to be truly 
clean.  As such, our testimony today is focused on two topics:  Incinerators, 
and a protective clean-energy definition for clean-energy production facilities. 
 
 
New Jersey is one step away from leading the nation in 
establishing the most protective clean-energy definition, putting a stop to the 
practice of designating “sacrifice zones.”  As climate policy has developed, 
there has always been a need to adjust the global impacts of climate change, 
as well as the local harm that comes from fossil fuel-emitting sources.  Many 
states that have passed clean-energy standards have focused solely on the 
global aspects, limiting their emissions to greenhouse gas.  But here, we are 
advocating that New Jersey include co-pollutants in the definition of a clean-
energy production facility. 
 
 
Incinerators present a good case study of what could happen if 
this law has a lax definition of clean energy.  Incinerators have received over 
$20 million of ratepayer subsidies annually, in both 2021 and 2022 alone.  
And, that amount is steadily increasing.  Incinerators in New Jersey are 
 
 
 
103 
among the top three emitters of co-pollutants like lead, smog-forming 
nitrogen oxides, and dangerous forever chemicals like PVCs. 
 
 
This pollution -- as you may have just heard from an 
environmental justice leader -- has real effects on the front-line communities 
living in the vicinity of these facilities.  These communities experience 
increased rates of health harms, including but not limited to respiratory 
issues; pre-term births; miscarriages; and cancer.  To make matters worse, 
incinerators across the state are consistently violating their permits, which 
outline the very basic standards they are supposed to meet.  Since 2004, New 
Jersey incinerators have had over 1,700 violations of their air permits. 
 
 
We are asking for a simple solution:  Do not let incinerators get 
subsidies if they violate their permits. 
 
 
(audience applause) 
 
 
MS. De OCAMPO:  So, what lessons can we learn and take from 
this case study? 
 
 
We make sure this bill has a stringent, protective clean-energy 
definition.  Co-pollutants must be included in the definition to disallow false 
solutions, like renewable natural gas and hydrogen combustion in the power 
sector, from obtaining ratepayer subsidies.  True clean-energy resources have 
lots of cost advantages over gas power plants that we currently rely on. 
 
 
And, you’ve heard this a lot today, so I’ll condense my points.  
They have zero fuel cost; they have low operations and maintenance costs; 
they have sharply decreasing construction costs; and they can obtain those 
Federal tax credits that we’ve heard.  If the bill defines clean energy properly, 
this will be an energy-affordability bill. 
 
 
 
104 
 
 
Let’s talk about reliability.  Right now, we are over-reliant on gas 
power plants, which provide more than half of the state’s electricity.  Every 
winter storm exposes more reliability issues with these plants.  Meanwhile, 
renewables performed as forecasted during winter events and even made up 
(indiscernible) and gas plant outages.  Again, if this bill defines clean energy 
properly, this will be an energy reliability bill for the State of New Jersey. 
 
 
To sum it up, giving subsidies to a false solution like incinerators 
was a mistake -- a mistake that has cost New Jersey over $130 million in 
ratepayer subsidies.  Let’s use this bill to fix that mistake, and let’s learn from 
it.  The State has a chance to truly advance a just, clean-energy transition and 
protect the neighborhoods that have historically bore and presently bear 
disproportionate harm.  We ask that the Legislature push forward with what 
could be a historic opportunity. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
(audience applause) 
B R O O K E   H E L M I C K:  Good afternoon, everyone, it is a pleasure 
to be here. 
 
 
And, thank you to Chair Smith and Chair DeAngelo for their 
leadership in facilitating this joint hearing, and for the opportunity for us to 
speak before you today. 
 
 
My name is Brooke Helmick, and I am the Law and Policy 
Manager with the New Jersey Environmental Justice Alliance, or the NJEJA. 
 
 
We are a 20-year-old alliance of New Jersey organizations and 
individuals, and are the first and only statewide organization that is 
exclusively dedicated to environmental justice.  We are also the only 
statewide environmental organization that is led and has our membership be 
 
 
 
105 
predominantly people of color.  Much of what you’ll hear from me grew out 
of the work of alliance members and our allies over the last 20 years. 
 
 
I am here today to share with you our perspective on a few key 
issue areas, including the definition of “clean-energy facility,” “co-pollutants,” 
and “mandatory emissions-reduction policy.” 
 
 
First, in the details of the definition itself.  The definition 
included, “Allows de minimis emissions to be determined by the DEP.”  We 
want to be clear that de minimis must mean as close to zero in terms of pounds 
of emissions in any given hour.  The only other legal definition of de minimis 
-- that we know of -- is the EPA definition under the Clean Air Act, which 
allows between 25 and 100 tons per year for various co-pollutants.  We need 
our regulatory agency to be looking at a de minimis definition that is close to 
zero as possible. 
 
 
Furthermore, with regards to the term “net emissions,” we 
generally object to this language because the facility could produce significant 
pollution in an over-burdened community and still claim net zero emissions 
by using offsets at other locations.  We’ve already seen incinerators make 
claims of net zero emissions, and, as my colleague before me said, these are 
false solutions, as they allow pollution to simply be displaced from one area 
to another, thereby harming communities that host this facility. 
 
 
The last piece that we want to bring to your attention is the use 
of “or” in two places of this definition.  We need to be sure that the definition 
requires facilities to demonstrate zero greenhouse gas emissions and zero co-
pollutant emissions.  And, additionally, that the facility would emit zero 
emissions at the point of generation and at any point in the supply chain. 
 
 
 
106 
 
 
Now, I’ll transition now to speak candidly about the urgency and 
the necessity of ensuring co-pollutants remain an integral component of this 
bill.  I recognize that folks earlier in the day have referenced this, but I think 
it’s imperative that I address it as well, as the EJ perspective approaches this 
concept through the lens of lived experience, which is something that only 
we can bring to the table. 
 
 
The inclusion of co-pollutants into climate policy is not a new 
concept, and the environmental justice community has been working on this 
issue for a long time.  And, Dr. Nicky Sheats, who testified in November and 
sits as the Chair of the NJEJA board, has been a leader in this area.  We’re 
grateful to see that the bill includes co-pollutants, because engaging in 
mandatory emissions reductions not only supports climate-change 
mitigation, but, it provides real and immediately felt impacts to communities 
disproportionately impacted and over-burdened by pollution.  Any New 
Jersey policy must address co-pollutants.  It must do so specifically, and it 
must do so explicitly, because the stakes have never been higher. 
 
 
We don’t accept an argument that these pollutants are relatively 
small in emissions compared to greenhouse gases, as there are serious health 
risks for the communities who live around these plants that emit these co-
pollutants, as you’ve heard today.  So, it is imperative to recognize that co-
pollutants such as fine particulate matter have no lower threshold for health 
benefits. 
 
 
As you know, in EJ communities, communities of color, and low-
income communities -- whose demographics often overlap -- there’s a 
disproportionate amount of pollution and co-pollutants produced by energy 
infrastructure go into making a disproportionate amount of this pollution.  
 
 
 
107 
And, as we’ve said, there are unjust and disproportionate health impacts of 
these pollutions, and these health disparities are intrinsically connected to 
and rooted in race and income in the United States.  Because of this, our 
stance is that if a climate-mitigation policy doesn’t address both climate 
change and local air pollution through co-pollutant mitigation, then it’s not 
an effective policy. 
 
 
And, now, we recognize that this isn’t--  This is a difficult stance 
to take.  But, we think that it’s imperative to maintain this position, because 
people are getting sick, and they are dying from local air pollution.  If we 
could have lowered local air pollution while fighting climate change, our loved 
ones who were killed by local air pollution wouldn’t be brought back to us.  
This is life and death for many across the state, and that’s why it’s essential 
that we keep “co-pollutants” and address it as an integral part of this bill. 
 
 
For us, the bottom line is -- to borrow a phrase from my 
colleagues at the Ironbound Community Corporation -- a clean-energy law 
must be “squeaky clean.”  To be truly clean would mean having a nation-
leading definition of clean energy; to be the first state to have such a strong 
definition; and set a high standard of protection for all of our residents.  
Without being truly clean, we leave behind front-line communities and 
exacerbate already existing problems of pollution; poor air qualities; and 
health disparities.  So, I will say again:  Clean must be “squeaky clean.” 
 
 
Lastly, despite the encouraging step forward in clean-energy 
procurement mandates, there are no guarantees that energy produced in New 
Jersey will be clean, and we recognize, though, that a bill can’t do everything.  
So, we think that by including and placing an emphasis on co-pollutants in 
this bill, addressing the question of de minimis, and fine-tuning the definition, 
 
 
 
108 
not only can we get a nation-leading definition, but we can open the door for 
legislation that does not speak specifically about energy produced in the state 
-- or, that does speak specifically, I should say. 
 
 
So, we look forward to coming back to speak with you about 
mandatory emissions reductions and opportunities for a rule or a bill that 
compliments this clean-energy standard. 
 
 
And, we thank you again for your leadership in considering this 
bill, the opportunity to testify, and I welcome any questions that you may 
have for me. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
(audience applause) 
 
 
MS. VALLADOLID:  Hi, thank you for having me. 
 
 
My name is Jessica Valladolid -- I go by JV -- and I am a lifelong 
Newark resident, and I am also an Environmental Justice Advocate with the 
Ironbound Community Corporation Environmental Justice Team. 
 
 
My colleague at NJPEEC mentioned incinerators.  Our-- New 
Jersey’s largest garbage incinerator is located in New Jersey, and it is as old as 
I am.  So, you can Google that. 
 
 
And, I just wanted to begin by just sharing regards from the 
Deputy Director of Organizing and Advocacy at Ironbound Community 
Corporation, Maria Lopez-Nuñez, who is currently attending the Aspen 
Climate Leadership Summit in Florida. 
 
 
So, today, I stand before you not just as a speaker, but as 
someone who has lived and witnessed the harsh realities of our current 
environmental justice landscape in Newark.  Our communities are not just 
statistics or abstract concepts; we are real people.  We are real people living 
 
 
 
109 
in a 4-square-mile neighborhood who have three existing fossil fuel power 
plants and the threat of a fourth.   
 
 
The Ironbound has been fighting for the basic right to breathe 
clean air for over 30 years.  When we talk about what constitutes clean, we 
must not overlook the lived experiences of those affected by it.  The 
pollutants these toxic facilities emit have real consequences, from the 
particulate matter -- 2.5 -- that was mentioned, to the toxic trio of lead, 
arsenic, and nitrous oxide, resulting in respiratory diseases and alarming rates 
of asthma that far exceed the national average.  These toxic pollutants make 
us sick every single day, and we cannot turn away from this reality. 
 
 
Carbon reduction is crucial, but it cannot be the sole emphasis 
in our fight against climate change.  We must confront decades of abuse 
stemming from existing power plants, which have been allowed to operate 
with little to no regard to public health.  Our lawmakers must prioritize public 
health in their decisions.  It is not an option -- it is a necessity, and it must 
be clearly codified in the bills that are passed. 
 
 
We cannot afford to lock in a future that perpetuates harm.  We 
must strive for a just and equitable energy future, one that values reducing 
carbon emissions just as much as it does reducing co-pollutants.  The health 
of our communities is at stake, and we must not settle for half-measures.  For 
communities facing the brunt of climate change today, passing laws that are 
not truly clean is the same as not passing any law at all.  We must recognize 
the importance of co-pollutant laws and regulations as much as we do carbon 
mitigation. 
 
 
In conclusion, let us take a stand against anything that dilutes 
our efforts.  Let us fight for communities like the Ironbound.  The very air 
 
 
 
110 
we breathe can only ever imagine to be improved by the highest clean-energy 
standards, and we ask that you prioritize public health in the pursuit of this 
sustainable future. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
(audience applause) 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, ladies. 
 
 
Any questions?  (no response) 
 
 
Seeing none, thank you for your testimony. 
 
 
All right, next panel coming up -- and, they were added on, and 
they were prefaced.  From our Advanced Energy United and Environmental 
Defense Fund and Empower New Jersey -- Kristina Persaud; Karla Sosa; Doug 
O’Malley; and Matt Smith. 
 
 
Please come on up.  
 
 
And, if you could just state your name on record. 
 
 
And, please, we’ve had a lot of environmental groups here saying 
the same message; don’t be repetitive. 
D A V I D   P R I N G L E:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
David Pringle, representing Empower New Jersey.  I think you 
all know who we are. 
 
 
We have submitted to all of you in the Legislature on Friday, I 
believe, a letter from over 100 groups calling for a strengthening of the clean-
energy standard bill.  And, so, I want to just very quickly summarize that 
testimony. 
 
 
And, we are also in support of the grid-mod bill.  We’ll leave the 
details to all of you. 
 
 
 
111 
 
 
And, to Assemblyman Barranco’s point, we don’t think it is a 
chicken and egg.  They both have to happen, and they have to happen 
simultaneously.  We need the grid-mod bill, but we need the clean-energy 
standard bill, too -- done the right way. 
 
 
There are several amendments that we’re seeking from the draft 
that was circulated in November.  You heard from the environmental justice 
folks what they are; we very much support them.  You need the “ands” instead 
of the “ors;” we need to define de minimis, and we can’t have (indiscernible).  
I just want to quickly elaborate as to why that is. 
 
 
Carbon neutral is not emissions neutral.  And, even carbon 
neutral, there’s a lot of accounting gimmicks that go.  Best-case scenario, 
carbon neutral doesn’t get the drastic reductions we need.  Worst-case 
scenario, it doesn’t get any reductions, and in some cases, it can increase 
pollution because of leakage and the like. 
 
 
We also fully support that the position--  The garbage 
incinerators that violate their air permits should not be getting renewable 
energy credits.  And, basically, this all boils down to:  You can’t burn 
hydrogen and you can’t burn methane.  How ever it’s produced -- from a 
landfill; from the sewer plant; naturally from (indiscernible); from methane; 
from ammonia; wherever you get it -- it can’t be converted to clean.  Same 
with hydrogen.  So, we really need to be doing alternatives. 
 
 
So, I also wanted to talk about the percentages that were being 
thrown around.  The 35% by next year -- that’s a different definition than 
what’s in this bill.  That is only--  Under that definition, it’s only RECs, and 
we’re not on track to get to 35% under that because of offshore wind being 
stalled.  However, we are on track for 100% by 2035 if we do it right.  Under 
 
 
 
112 
the definition of this bill, nuclear is clean; that’s 35% to 40% of our power 
right now.  In-state solar is roughly 5%; out-of-state clean energy RECs are 
coming into the state -- that’s 10% to 20%.  So, by that math, today, we’re 
already at 50% to 60%.  Offshore wind isn’t going as fast as we’d like, but it’s 
getting there, and it will be ready to go by 2035.  And, we do support 
amendments to make sure that as much of that -- those jobs happen in-state 
and that we want in-state power for all those reasons. 
 
 
So, let me just close by saying that to tweak a well-known phrase, 
“If you don’t build it, they won’t come.”  If you don’t have a goal, you’re 
never going to achieve.  If Kennedy didn’t have that goal, we wouldn’t have 
gotten to the moon.  So, can we get there by 2035?  I think we can.  If it has 
to slip to 2036, 2037, so be it, but the definition is absolutely critical, because 
once you’ve built that stuff, it isn’t going to go away.  If we keep laying more 
and more gas pipelines, they’re not going to want--  They’re not going to shut 
down in five or 10 years; that’s going to be massive stranded debt.  So, let’s 
invest in the stuff that we really need to, and to get that done. 
 
 
We do not want the perfect to be the enemy of the good.  We 
have made a lot of progress, but the bill is not there yet.  And, if we don’t get 
it right, we will fail, and, so, we look forward to working with you. 
 
 
And, I appreciate -- I know at least Chairman Smith and I know 
the administration has said that they support the amendments that we’re 
looking for. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you for your testimony, 
and thank you for being very precise.  I appreciate it. 
 
 
Kristina. 
 
 
 
113 
K R I S T I N A   P E R S A U D:  Good afternoon, Chairman Smith and 
DeAngelo, and Committee members; thank you for having me today. 
 
 
My name is Kristina Persaud.  I am the Senior Policy Principal 
in New Jersey State League for Advanced Energy United, a national business 
association representing more than 100 energy companies, including 
everything from wind; solar; EV; transmission developers.  Together, the 
Advanced Energy sector employed roughly 140,000 workers in the Garden 
State in 2022.  
 
 
First, I would like to express strong support for S237, the clean-
energy standard, because it provides clear market signal and incentives for 
investment in renewable-energy infrastructure in the state. 
 
 
And, now I am going to turn to the grid-mod bill.  Grid 
modernization can foster innovation and embrace customer participation in 
the energy transition.  However, as drafted, United would urge legislators to 
consider several key amendments.  The amendments have been attached to 
my written testimony, and you should have those. 
 
 
First, we recommend focusing the bill on the modernization of 
the distribution system only.  By excluding transmission, we avoid 
jurisdictional ambiguity, given the BPU clear oversight over the scope of the 
bill. 
 
 
Second, the bill’s provisions must be clarified to ensure utility 
investments align with the creation of a modern flexible grid.  To build the 
grid of tomorrow, investments must change the architecture of the grid, as 
opposed to reinforcing already outdated practices.  
 
 
Third, while we support the establishment of a ratepayer relief 
fund, we are concerned for the potential for that fund to increase utility 
 
 
 
114 
profits at taxpayer expense.  We recommend prohibiting the use of relief 
funds to increase a utility’s base rate, ensuring 100% of those funds directly 
benefit the customer. 
 
 
And, lastly, ensuring that plans are prudent and cost-effective is 
critical, and requires sufficient BPU oversight and stakeholder input.  As 
drafted, 120-day timeframe or automatic approval without the BPU is 
insufficient for necessary scrutiny.  We propose extending the timeframe to 
240 days and completely eliminating any automatic approvals to ensure that 
there is adequate oversight and scrutiny. 
 
 
Thank you for considering my testimony, and I am happy to take 
any questions. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Kristina. 
 
 
Karla. 
K A R L A   S O S A:  Thank you; good afternoon. 
 
 
I am Karla Sosa; I am Environmental Defense Fund’s New Jersey 
policy manager, and I am testifying on behalf of both EDF and the Natural 
Resources Defense Council. 
 
 
Thank you for this hearing and for the opportunity to testify.  I 
am going to do my best to cut corners and keep it short. 
 
 
So, I am focusing only on the grid-mod bill.  I don’t need to 
underscore the importance of the electric grid in our lives.  We rely on it 
currently; we will continue to do so, and especially in an electrified future.  I 
just want to underscore an electrified future is to the benefit of New 
Jerseyans.  Electrifying vehicles and buildings and doing so correctly can lower 
energy expenditures and rates, and can improve the current utilization of the 
grid -- to say nothing of reduced air pollution. 
 
 
 
115 
 
 
And, much of this can be done with the existing grid capacity, 
but some strategic and proactive investments are needed to ensure the grid 
can support electrification while being flexible enough to interconnect 
distributed energy resources such as solar. 
 
 
We need to start today to build the grid that we will need 
tomorrow.  Grid build-out takes time, and the infrastructure typically lasts 
several decades, so we need to commit to a path now that will build the grid 
needed for healthy and economically vibrant New Jersey with reliability and 
affordability, of course, always front of mind.  The longer we delay, the harder 
and costlier it will be to course correct down the line. 
 
 
EDF and NRDC believe this bill, with some modifications, can 
lead us down a path of responsible investments.  Our amendments are 
supported by a diverse group of stakeholders including Environment New 
Jersey, Charge EVC, Tesla, and others.  They’ve been submitted along with 
my testimony for your review. 
 
 
I’ll go over what the red lines do very quickly.  They require 
utilities to update their infrastructure planning processes to align with the 
State’s electrification goals, and they then direct utilities to update 
infrastructure deployment and operation procedures to meet these 
electrification-related needs.  They promote the use of technologies such as 
flexible interconnections, customer-side distributed energy resources, and 
non-wired solutions to expedite interconnections and right-size investments, 
keeping build-out affordable.  They establish timelines for prompter 
interconnection and energization of new loads and distributed energy 
resources.  They require utilities to cover reasonable costs of utility-side 
infrastructure for EV charging, as well as authorizing them to recover certain 
 
 
 
116 
costs related to projects.  While directing, they design EV charging rates to 
promote affordable, equitable, and efficient charging.  And, finally, they 
require a workforce-development pipeline and establish utility reporting and 
BPU and stakeholder monitoring. 
 
 
In short, New Jersey’s shift to electrification requires we change 
our approach -- which is currently reactive -- to one that identifies and 
prepares for oncoming electric demands.  While some of these issues are 
currently being supported by the BPU, we believe our amendments would 
compliment those efforts. 
 
 
I want to thank you again for allowing me to testify today, and I 
look forward to working together, and I’m happy to answer any questions. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, Karla. 
 
 
Doug. 
D O U G   O ’ M A L L E Y:  Thank you so much, Mr. Chairman. 
 
 
Doug O’Malley, Director of Environment New Jersey. 
 
 
And, a wise man once said that brevity was the soul of wit, so I 
will work to be short. 
 
 
In terms of the grid-mod bill that Karla just testified on, I think 
what you’ve heard universally is that everybody and their mother is in 
support of grid modernization.  The problem is, who is going to spend money 
to make that happen? 
 
 
And, that’s why I wanted to thank Senator Smith for this bill, 
for having $30 million.  Because, in the Governor’s budget prepared for ’25, 
there’s $40 million.  There’s a zero missing after that 40, though.  We need 
to be making investments through the budget process and through the BPU 
to make grid modernization happen. 
 
 
 
117 
 
 
I am also testifying here this morning as the Steering Committee 
of Empower New Jersey.  There’s more than 60 activists who turned out, with 
a simple message:  New Jersey needs “squeaky clean” energy.  And, while that 
may seem tongue in cheek, that’s exactly the message that you just heard 
delivered from environmental justice leaders and specifically this line from 
the November 20 hearing by Maria Lopez-Nuñez from the Ironbound 
Community Corporation. 
 
 
The Ironbound and other communities across the state have 
suffered the ravages of environmental injustice, and you heard direct 
testimony on the importance of ensuring that a clean-energy definition is 
truly that -- truly “squeaky clean.” 
 
 
I also just wanted to take a few moments to reference and 
support the testimony of MSSIA on ensuring -- and, also, on many others -- 
ensuring that solar happens in New Jersey and that we are looking to produce 
in-state solar, not just because of the environmental benefits, but because of 
the value for the grid.  We feel that the value of solar is being vastly under-
valued, and this is backed up in the MSSIA testimony which is in front of 
you.  The average value of solar is bundled energy and attributes -- there’s 
$264 per megawatt hour in New Jersey.  That is a tremendous value, so we 
need to be looking at the full value of solar for in state. 
 
 
I will also say, looking for out-of-state clean energy, we need to 
be sure that we’re not double counting.  It’s called additionality; we shouldn’t 
be double counting energy that is in Ohio or Illinois.  So, we need to make 
sure that we’re balancing the needs to have -- to maintain our current balance 
of out-of-state clean energy, but to ensure we continue to build more in-state 
clean energy, including solar and offshore wind. 
 
 
 
118 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, guys. 
 
 
Any questions from the Committee?  (no response) 
 
 
Seeing none, the panel is dismissed; thank you. 
 
 
Chairman. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  So, we’re going to bring up a couple of 
groups because they’re relatively small. 
 
 
Panel 8 was New Jersey Chamber of Commerce -- Mike Eggerton 
(sic).  Is Mike here? 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  I don’t see him. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  No. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  And, I’m sure we received testimony from 
him. 
 
 
Our last two panels are two people each.  Renewable developers 
-- Lyle Rawlings, MSSIA; and Paulina O’Connor, formerly Banasiak, for NJ 
Offshore Wind Alliance.  And, then, the MS -- municipal solid waste 
incinerators -- Alyssa Wilds, Director of Community Affairs for Covanta; and 
Lloyd Naideck, Director of Government Relations for Covanta. 
 
 
So, why don’t we put Lyle over on the left side; we’ll do Lyle and 
Paulina first, and then last will be Alyssa and Lloyd. 
 
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Yes. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Yes. 
 
 
How about Alyssa and Lloyd, are they here? 
 
 
OK, come on up. 
 
 
And, let’s not waste a moment.  Lyle, if you would introduce your 
topic and your name-- 
 
 
 
119 
L Y L E   K.   R A W L I N G S:  Yes-- 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  --and your representation. 
 
 
MR. RAWLINGS:  Thank you, Chairman Smith, and Chairman 
DeAngelo; thanks for inviting me here to speak. 
 
 
My name is Lyle Rawlings. I am the President and Founder of 
the Mid-Atlantic Solar and Storage Industries Association. 
 
 
And, Chairman DeAngelo, I do have new information to share; 
no repetition, I don’t think. 
 
 
You should have a slide deck, a presentation, it looks like this.  
And, in view of the testimony I’ve heard, I’m going to switch it up in order a 
little bit and go right to slide number eight of 10, and talk about the RPS and 
the RPS bill. 
 
 
So, we’ve testified before about MSSIA’s modeling of what 2035 
looks like under current policies and under an RPS bill.  I know this is an 
older version of the same bill with similar outcomes.  And, for the past week, 
we’ve been burning the midnight oil to add additional detail and bring the 
modeling up to date.  And, the results are pretty surprising and, in a way, 
very encouraging. 
 
 
So, we’ve modeled the load growth.  We did a detailed model of 
achieving the Governor’s executive order for EVs, 100% of sales by 2035.  
We’ve modeled in detail the load growth due to electrification, but also took 
into account the energy master plan’s recommendations for energy efficiency 
-- as you said, Chairman DeAngelo, it’s the cheapest best kilowatt hours, the 
one you don’t use -- and took the EMP recommendations for reduction of 
load due to energy efficiency, and put all that in the model to see how much 
load will grow net between now and 2035. 
 
 
 
120 
 
 
And, then, we took a look at current policy for renewables.  And, 
this includes the executive order for offshore wind through 2040; the 
executive order for -- well, not an executive order, the least-cost scenario that 
was reported and recommended in the energy master plan for solar.  Now, 
that doesn’t have an executive order with a specific requirement, but it is 
established in law, but only for the next two years.  So, solar is only supported 
for the next two years; it makes us very nervous. 
 
 
But, assuming the energy master plan least-cost scenario is 
continued, that we don’t abandon solar two years from now, and we keep 
growing solar through 2035 and meet those EMP goals -- which, by the way, 
are just interim goals for both offshore wind and for solar.  But, those interim 
goals by 2035 result in a situation where nuclear, wind, and solar -- and a 
small amount of biomass -- provide 98% of the required energy.  And, 98% 
of the renewable energy is in-state energy.  We only need a very small amount 
of energy from out of state -- Class I energy from out of state -- 2% out of 
state will get us to 100% in 2035.  And, that’s great; that means we can get 
to these goals of 100% with in-state renewables and create jobs and economic 
growth. 
 
 
And, what this implies is that we don’t need much in the way of 
out-of-state Class I, and we certainly don’t need a clean-energy standard.  We 
have got four different renewable incentives now -- we have ORECs, we have 
Class I RECs, we have SRECs, and we have nuclear ZECs.  Now, the nuclear 
ZECs have been taken out because Uncle Sam is doing that for us now.  But, 
we don’t need a fifth energy standard, especially one that is opening the door 
to questionable technologies that are non-renewable and that may not 
provide additionality. 
 
 
 
121 
 
 
So, we are in good shape, but these are executive orders and, in 
the case of solar, only in place for the next two years.  This bill is important; 
100% by 2035 is important.  We should do it.  And, we need to take these 
executive orders and goals, make sure they’re extended to 2035, and have 
them in legislation, not just executive orders. 
 
 
So, the bill -- the RPS bill that we had in November -- and this 
bill, which I believe is from August from 2022, unfortunately don’t achieve 
that bright future.  When you do the math on S237 that’s on the web now, 
what you find is, in that scenario where it’s 50% in-state renewables, it means 
there’s zero support for solar starting today.  In other words, we can meet 
those standards and stop building solar right now.  And, in fact, we’d have to 
do that and cut back on the wind goals of 7.5 gigawatts by 2035, and roll 
that back to 4.5 gigawatts instead and meet that 50% in-state renewables.  
So, we believe the bill has to be amended to protect these sources that can 
provide everything we need to get to 100% by 2035. 
 
 
One of the topics I was asked to speak about was the value of 
solar.  And, this speaks to, “Is it cost effective to do this; to get to this 100% 
with 100% in-state sources?”  The studies that have been done -- and there 
are several that address the value of solar -- show that it is worth much more 
than the cost of incentives that it takes to build it here in the state.  And, that 
goes back to slide number two.  Actually, I am going to touch briefly on slide 
number one. 
 
 
And, what slide number one speaks to is that the tech-neutral 
approach is the wrong approach.  And, this is what is being done in 
jurisdictions all over the world.  On that slide, it shows the work of the 
International Energy Agency’s “Task 14,” which is, “How do you turn 
 
 
 
122 
intermittent renewables into firm power?”  And, this is being done all over 
the world right now by Drs. Richard Perez and Marc Perez of Clean Power 
Research. 
 
 
What is shown here is an optimization curve, and that’s what 
they do.  They go to--  Right now, they’ve done 17 states, most of them in 
the mid continent, so 15 states there including the famous Minnesota Solar 
Pathway study that was done by them.  They’re doing this in China now; 
Canada; Switzerland; Australia; several Caribbean islands.  And, what they 
do is they take the optimum recipe of how much of different resources in 
what amounts get you to the lowest overall cost.  So, this is a technological 
optimization study.  It’s not tech blind; it’s not tech neutral; it’s technology 
specific.  It gets you to the most optimum point. 
 
 
And, one of the consequences of that is it also optimizes the grid-
modernization efforts and gets you the least possible cost to do the grid 
modernization.  So, it’s like baking a cake.  You need the right amount of the 
right ingredients, and that’s something we need to do in New Jersey.  We 
need to do one of these tech-optimization studies; find out what it’s going to 
cost; and what the right recipe is. 
 
 
Now, if we do that, we optimize the value, and the next slide -- 
slide two -- is the first study, which was our own energy master plan.  It 
considered several different scenarios, and it came up with what it called the 
“least-cost scenario.”  And that least-cost scenario, as shown in this slide, is 
heavy on in-state solar.  It has only 2% out-of-state solar, but 34% in-state 
solar.  And, in slide three, it shows how much solar it recommends, and it 
recommends by 2035 that we have 17.2 gigawatts of solar.  And, we’ve 
already built or approved about 5.5 gigawatts, so that’s about 11.5 gigawatts 
 
 
 
123 
more that we need to build between now and 2035 to adhere to the energy 
master plan recommendations for the least cost. 
 
 
In slide four, the energy master plan also said in Section 2.1.6, 
“Develop mechanisms to compensate distributed energy resources for their 
full value stack.”  And, a full value stack means you stack up a bunch of 
services that solar will create and see what the total value is.  And, as Doug 
said, the conclusion of the study of clean-power research here in 2012 was 
that, in New Jersey, the value of the energy and the attributes together is 
$264 per megawatt hour.  That’s well above the incentives that we’re paying 
solar.  We also asked them to look at what is the value of just the attributes 
without the energy value, and that was $170.  We’re now paying incentives 
of about 100.  So, consumers are getting a bargain. 
 
 
I am going to skip over the next two slides for the sake of time, 
but these explain more of one of those values, which is the way the solar 
drives down the cost of wholesale power during the peak power periods, or 
the peak pricing periods, of the summer afternoon.  And, there is a lot in here 
about how these -- how that works.  Among the many other values, some of 
which Doug mentioned, like the jobs; the economic growth; the billions in 
Federal dollars that are flowing into this state. 
 
 
So, I am going to skip those and go to values that are delivered 
by solar that are either new, and therefore not studied before or simply 
weren’t studied before.  I’ll go through these quickly. 
 
 
One is that when renewable energy displaces fossil fuels such as 
natural gas during the peak solar time, you’re changing the demand -- the 
demand supply balance -- and driving down the cost of the fossil fuels.  So, 
as we get more and more renewables on the grid and more in other states as 
 
 
 
124 
well, regionally, you’ll drive down the cost of natural gas.  And, so, that’s a 
value that hasn’t been studied, and that can easily be quantified but has not 
been. 
 
 
Another is resiliency.  When we do distributed solar in the state, 
and we’re doing batteries at the same time, we compare the two together to 
keep critical facilities operating.  And, this could be thousands of homes; it 
could be gas stations and hotels, local attributes like that.  It can be hospitals; 
it can be giant sewage plants and water plants.  And, keeping these critical 
community functions going has a value that our Office of Emergency 
Management knows how to quantify. 
 
 
Now, the biggest one is there’s a difference between in-state 
distributed solar and every other source of clean energy.  And, that is that 
every clean-energy project generates a profit; it generates net revenue.  So, 
the question is, who gets that revenue?  When you build solar in the state, 
that revenue -- part of it or all of it -- goes to homeowners; it goes to schools, 
local municipalities, businesses.  People and institutions in this state get that 
profit.  So, that’s a cash benefit that goes back -- never been studied before. 
 
 
Now, we studied, in the case of 40 schools, that for every dollar 
of incentive that was spent on those school projects -- for these school projects 
-- the school saved $1.50.  So, they paid for the whole cost of incentives, plus 
just from that alone.  And, now it’s going to get even better -- due to the IRA, 
those schools which used to rely on third-party owners -- so they split the 
profit with third-party investors, so the schools only got a third to a half of 
that profit.  Now they can get all of it because the IRA established direct pay 
of the ITC.  So, government nonprofits can get that money directly.  So, that 
 
 
 
125 
will double or triple the cash value that those institutions get, which is then 
spread broadly with the public. 
 
 
And, I think I will end it there.  There’s more on grid 
modernization, but, for the sake of time, I’ll provide electronic copies of both 
my testimonies, the backup studies, and our modeling. 
P A U L I N A   B A N A S I A K   O ’ C O N N O R:  Good morning.  I 
hope you all had a hearty breakfast. 
 
 
I am Paulina O’Connor, and I serve as the Inaugural Executive 
Director of the New Jersey Offshore Wind Alliance, or NJOWA. 
 
 
We’re a newly created advocacy project organized through our 
parent organization, MAREC Action.  The Alliance is comprised and funded 
by offshore wind developers and regional energy advocacy groups.  Our 
mission is to be the unified and trusted voice of the offshore-wind industry.  
We are dedicated to the clean-energy transition; maximizing economic 
development; and working closely with environmental, energy, and labor 
stakeholders to advocate for policies that deliver a more clean and reliable 
energy through offshore wind. 
 
 
Thank you for inviting NJOWA to testify today on the bill.  We 
generally support the legislation and stand with its sponsors and countless 
advocacy groups in support of renewable and reliable energy.  However, we 
recognize that we need to make sure such policies do not have unintended 
adverse consequences, and we’re encouraged by this thorough and 
transparent legislative process and hope that the labor and environment 
stakeholders, as well as the sponsors, come to a mutually beneficial agreement 
for all. 
 
 
 
126 
 
 
I want to underscore the importance of offshore wind as a key 
component in our state’s clean-energy future.  It presents a tremendous 
opportunity for the state to diversify its energy portfolio; reduce greenhouse-
gas emissions; and create high-quality jobs in a rapidly growing industry.  
Offshore wind companies stand with labor groups to ensure the creation of 
thousands of well-paying jobs in construction, manufacturing, operation, and 
maintenance.  These jobs will not only support our local economies, but also 
provide opportunities for workers in communities that have been historically 
underserved or marginalized.  With our state’s extensive coastline and strong 
wind resources, we are uniquely positioned to become a leader in offshore 
wind development on the east coast.  And, by harnessing the power of 
offshore wind, New Jersey can make substantial progress towards its clean-
energy goals; improve air quality; and protect our natural resources for future 
generations to come. 
 
 
And, lastly, I would like to stress the importance of codifying the 
Governor’s Executive Order Number 308, which would formalize the 11,000-
megawatt goal by 2040 into state statute.  We welcome the opportunity to 
meet with members of both sides of the aisle to discuss further the benefits 
of offshore wind and the need for the codification of the EO. 
 
 
We are always available as a resource, and we thank you again 
for the invitation to testify. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Any questions for the panel?  (no response) 
 
 
(indiscernible) and Lloyd. 
 
 
Tell us what you would like to tell us. 
L L O Y D   N A I D E C K:  Thank you, Chairman. 
 
 
 
127 
 
 
Lloyd Naideck; I am the Director of Government Relations for 
Covanta. 
 
 
Covanta operates or owns three facilities in New Jersey:  one in 
Essex; one in Union and Rahway; and then one in Camden.  There is also a 
fourth facility not owned or operated by us, by a competitor known as WIN, 
that operates in Gloucester County.  Gloucester County owns that facility, as 
does Union County.  We are the operator in some sort -- in some ways -- and 
other times we actually own the facilities and manage them that way. 
 
 
Covanta itself is a leader in the sustainable-material management 
industry.  On top of just our waste-energy facilities, which you’ve heard today 
as incinerators, which we respectfully disagree with that term being the only 
exclusive term used for that.  There is an air-emission control system.  This 
is not what we think of as in New York City in the 1950s where you put 
garbage down a chute and it goes to an open flame and it’s just released out 
into the air.  There is an immense amount of air-emission control.  In fact, 
two-thirds of the facilities are air-emission control. 
 
 
We are also a New Jersey-based company.  We are headquartered 
in Morristown, and employ over 500 individuals here in the state between 
the facilities and our corporate headquarters.  We are proud to be one of the 
only corporations -- and the only corporation to testify in favor of New 
Jersey’s environmental justice law -- in 2021, and we strongly support efforts 
not just to drive down emissions and be transparent with the communities 
that we operate in, but also then to interact with those communities and give 
back to them. 
 
 
We recognize that we are not--  We are a heavily regulated 
industry and we do have air emissions.  We are aware of that.  All facilities 
 
 
 
128 
in the state with a Title V air-emission permit are going to have some sort of 
emission, but we recognize it’s our responsibility to, again, drive those 
emissions down and be integrated in the community as much as humanly 
possible.  And, Alyssa is going to speak to that role really quickly in a few 
minutes. 
 
 
There is a reason waste-energy facilities not just exist but are 
included in the RPS in New Jersey and in many other states.  In fact, 31 
states consider waste energy to be a renewable energy source.  The Federal 
government does so, and Europe does so, in many ways.  Again, the reason 
for that is because of the GHG emission reduction.  There is no carbon-free 
way to deal with waste -- in America, in Europe, or anywhere else in the world.  
In fact, of all the G7 nations, waste-to-energy is the preferred method of waste 
disposal.  The reason for that is the methane emission avoidance, recycling, 
and a carbon-neutral technology that we are. 
 
 
There is--  Again, there is nothing else that is going to come close.  
Composting is going to have an emission; recycling has emission; anaerobic 
digestion -- everything has an emission.  When you’re talking about waste, it 
is one area that decarbonization is not as clear as, say, the electric industry.  
We look to New York State, for example, where they just had the CLCPA -- 
the Climate Leadership Citizens Protection Act.  That law went into effect a 
couple years ago; they had a large climate-scoping climate council.  They 
found 12% of all GHG emissions in the state came from the waste center.  
That was tied for third largest after vehicles and buildings.  So, it was tied 
with the electric-generation sector.  Of that, 85% of those emissions came 
from landfills.  We--  In New Jersey, we are about 25% of the municipal solid 
waste is handled through facilities like ours; same in New York City.  Again, 
 
 
 
129 
you can just now kind of do the math on the back of the envelope in your 
head.  The emissions from the waste sector in New Jersey are coming 
dramatically from landfills; they’re coming from other facilities as well.  It is 
not exclusively a waste-to-energy problem or part of the ecosystem. 
 
 
We also--  So, on top of being considered a renewable energy in 
all these other states; on top of being seen in the Biden Administration’s 
Inflation Reduction Act as a method of waste disposal so valued that the IRA 
granted up to 40% tax breaks to cities, municipalities, and counties that go 
ahead and build new facilities.  And, we are seeing new facilities that are being 
cited and built today throughout other parts of the country. 
 
 
Getting specifically to your legislation, Senator Smith, which we 
do support the goal of, and, we admire the work that you’re doing because it 
is not easy.  And, you are bringing together a very large and divergent group 
of stakeholders to solve the largest issue that this state and this country and 
this world know, which is, how do we actually generate clean electricity? 
 
 
We strongly believe that if we’re going to put lines around the 
current RPS and the current RECs that are given -- whether they are Class I, 
Class II, SRECs, ZRECs -- whatever they might be -- every facility that’s 
within an environmental justice zone -- of which there are many, that are not 
just waste-to-energy facilities -- should also have the same stringent 
applications of permits being complied to and adhered to. 
 
 
Our facilities--  We heard testimony earlier that said we’ve had 
1,000-plus air violations since 2004 from the different facilities.  Just to be 
clear:  One facility alone in New Jersey has 600,000 overlapping compliance 
periods a year.  We are 99.96% compliant, on average, with all of our 
facilities.  To say 1,000 -- 1,000 air emission, 1,000 permit violations, 
 
 
 
130 
whatever they might be, because it’s not clear that they’re always air emission.  
They could be storm water; there could be a paperwork permit issue -- 1,000 
out of 600,000 per facility per year.  Again, putting that into the context of 
where it actually is does give a little perspective on what we’re doing here. 
 
 
We also want to make sure that if we are going to be having a 
penalty for having any sort of permit violation, that is not a one-year 
violation.  We strongly believe that if there is a violation, we want to give 
back to the community; we want to give back that REC for that time.  We 
would be willing to put that money into a fund to benefit the community, 
but we do not believe it should be a one-year, one permit violation and you’re 
out.  No facility in New Jersey -- whether they’re doing what we do or doing 
anything else -- is going to be 100% compliant 100% of the time. 
 
 
So, with that, just very quickly, we want to come up here and 
make clear we recognize the target that’s on our back.  We recognize we’re a 
regulated industry that has real emissions.  We work to drive them down; we 
work to be a partner with the communities that we exist in, and we work to 
diverge and divert fossil fuels from being a part of the grid -- which, in all 
honesty, seems that, from the conversation here, is going to continue for the 
next several years -- next 10 years at a minimum.  With this legislation 
passing, hopefully at 2035 we get to that conversation, but we want to 
continue to ensure that fossil fuels are not a part of that grid, and that’s why 
we’re part of the RPS. 
 
 
And, with that, I’ll turn to Alyssa, who handles our community 
relations side of the (indiscernible). 
A L Y S S A   W I L D S:  Thank you for giving me the responsibility of 
standing in between you and a (indiscernible). 
 
 
 
131 
 
 
So, I will go as quickly as humanly possible. 
 
 
My name is Alyssa Wilds, and I am the Director of Corporate 
and Community Relations at Covanta.  My responsibility is to oversee our 
community outreach efforts across the country; address long-standing 
environmental-justice concerns; and ensure residents remain informed and 
heard. 
 
 
And, while I joined team Covanta in September 2021 as the 
Community Outreach Manager for four sites, including Camden, Union, and 
Essex, New Jersey, the work had already begun a decade prior.  Our 
environmental-justice policy was created in Chester, PA, alongside residents, 
stakeholders, and activists in 2011.  The goal of the policy was to recognize 
our need to engage all community stakeholders; address concerns; open 
regular lines of communication; and become a good neighbor -- a valued 
community partner. 
 
 
The policy came with a community outreach playbook that 
suggested ways to engage residents in grassroots organizations; however, it 
was quickly realized that there was no one-stop approach to doing the work.  
Each city came with its own history, intricacies, and goals to be achieved.  
And, treating them as though they were the same could be more harmful than 
having never having engaged them at all. 
 
 
Over the past two years, the Community Relations team has 
grown.  With two specialists dedicated to New Jersey, we have been able to 
expand our efforts with the specific needs of the community in mind.  We 
listened.  We had hard conversations.  We allowed the residents to design 
the community outreach plan for their city.  We met with stakeholders.  We 
regrouped and revised our plans as often as necessary.  
 
 
 
132 
 
 
In 2023, after a full revision of our community outreach 
playbook and setting key performance indicators, we logged 1,400-plus 
volunteer hours in the State of New Jersey.  Four thousand families, seniors, 
and displaced individuals were fed.  Vacant lots were turned into pollinator 
gardens.  Elementary students were taught to recycle.  Middle schoolers 
worked alongside our facility staff to create small urban farms.  High 
schoolers were offered internships to explore career paths that didn’t require 
a college degree.  Second-chance hiring was introduced; local hiring was 
increased.  Weekly community cleanups were completed with city leaders 
and other corporate partners.  Neighborhood service projects were 
accomplished to assist in raising the city’s Sustainable Jersey certification.  
Collaborations with workforce-development organizations were established 
to create stronger employee pipelines. 
 
 
Covanta-led monthly gatherings were held to keep lines of 
communication open and transparency at the forefront.  Town Hall meetings 
were hosted throughout our whole cities, as requested.  School and sports 
sponsorships were offered to grant students the same experiences as their 
suburban counterparts.  Facility tours rose drastically.  College and high 
school students from around the state; elected officials; mentoring 
organizations; seniors; inquisitive residents; and activists were all hosted.  
Several nonprofits were able to expand their programming due to funds 
received from our community benefits agreement.  The list goes on, and the 
work continues. 
 
 
Covanta recognizes the importance of the work being done and 
the need to do more.  Not only has the community relations team expanded 
to ensure the work does not end and there are no gaps in service, but our 
 
 
 
133 
outreach efforts are now a company-wide priority.  We have also begun 
working jointly with other industries in our host cities to provide greater 
services to the residents. 
 
 
I am a product of a Covanta community, and I am devoted to 
this work.  Over-burdened and under-served cities like my hometown of 
Camden, New Jersey, are used to being disregarded.  We have been promised 
much and given extraordinarily little.  We were used to decisions being made 
without our knowledge or input.  Covanta has changed that narrative.  We 
initiate the conversations, and we keep all partners informed.  We guarantee 
promises are upheld and delivered on time.  We speak the languages of the 
communities.  We offer information at multiple levels of understanding.  We 
are always available to answer questions and listen to concerns.  We are open, 
accessible, and consistently doing our very best to be a good neighbor and a 
valued community partner. 
 
 
Thank you very much for this opportunity to speak. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  Alyssa, thank you for your comments. 
 
 
And, Lloyd, thank you for yours as well. 
 
 
Thank everybody (indiscernible) 
 
 
I think we got a thorough, exhaustive set of comments on both 
of these bills.  
 
 
Chairman DeAngelo, let me thank you for participating with 
your Committee today.  It was a lot of fun; let’s do it again soon. 
 
 
ASSEMBLYMAN DeANGELO:  Thank you, everyone. 
 
 
SENATOR SMITH:  All right, be well. 
(MEETING CONCLUDED) 
